{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red117\green117\blue117;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\sa400

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Thank you for coming.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna make some history together today.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:00:50]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, welcome to Macworld.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, it was.. uh it was just a year ago that I was up here and announced that we were gonna switch to Intel processors.[0:01:03]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A huge, heart transplant to Intel microprocessors. And uh I said that we would do it over the coming 12 months. We did it in seven months, and it was the [cough]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'96 it\'92s been the smoothest and most successful transition that we\'92ve ever seen in the history of our industry. [0:01:25]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it was because [cough] we made a beautiful, seamless version of OSX for Intel processors. And our team created Rosetta software which lets you run PowerPC apps on top of OSX on Intel processors.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our hardware team got to cranking out a new Mac with Intel processors every month, and we completed this transition in seven months. But we didn\'92t do this alone. We did this with the help of a lotta folks. [0:01:57]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our new colleagues at Intel really helped us. Thank you very much. [cough] [0:02:04]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our thir\'85 [0:02:06]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our third-party developers rapidly moving their apps to universal versions to run at native speeds on Intel processors. Thank you very much. [0:02:18]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And most of all, our users. The minute you saw these lightning-fast machines, ya bought \'92em. And we\'92ve had an extremely successful year, and I want to thank our users very much.[0:02:32]\
Now, as many of you know, our retail stores have for a while been selling over half their Macs to people who have never owned a Mac before: switchers. [0:02:48]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, I\'92m pleased to report that now, in the U.S., Macs selling through all channels, over half of them are selling to people who\'92ve never owned a Mac before. It\'92s not just limited to our retail stores anymore. Half the Macs we\'92re selling in the U.S.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We are picking up lots and lots of new members of the Mac family, and we couldn\'92t be happier. As a matter of fact, here\'92s uh uh uh one that might be coming on soon. Jim Allchin at Microsoft was quoted recently as saying if he didn\'92t work for Microsoft, he would buy a Mac, and he\'92s retiring soon, so I\'92ve alerted our Seattle stores to keep an eye out for him and give him really good service. [cough] [0:03:27]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, uh Vista\'92s coming out, and uh you know our ads with the Mac guy and the PC guy, uh we made a little ad for Vista, and I\'92d love to show it to you now, if you\'92d like to see it? So let\'92s go ahead and run it. [0:03:39]\
[cough]\
[Apple ad]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:04:17]\
So, 2007 is gonna be a great year for the Mac. But this is all we\'92re gonna talk about the Mac today.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna move on to some other things and over the course of the next several months we\'92re gonna roll out some awesome stuff for the Mac.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But for today, we\'92re gonna move on. [0:04:42]\
So, the first thing I\'92d like to do is give you an update about our music business.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 As you know, we\'92ve got the.. the iPod, best music player in the world.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got the iPod nanos, brand new models, colors are back.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got the amazing new iPod Shuffle. [0:05:01]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The iPod, in addition to being the world\'92s best MP3 player, has become the world\'92s most popular video player, and by a large margin.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The iPod Nano is the world\'92s most popular MP3 player, by a wide margin.[0:05:18]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And the new shuffle is the world\'92s most wearable MP3 player.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we had an incredible line-up for this holiday season, all refreshed and new products.[0:05:31]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now I\'92d like to tell you a few things about iTunes now that are pretty exciting.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Number one, we have crossed a major milestone. We have sold over 2 billion songs on iTunes. It\'92s amazing.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, there were some.. there was an article recently that said iTunes sales had slowed dramatically. I don\'92t know what data they\'92re looking at, but uh this is our data, and what we see is iTunes sales were really up this past year. uh It took us over three years to get to a billion songs. We got our second billion in 10 months in 2006. And growing off us over 600 million song base, we doubled it in 2006.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we couldn\'92t be happier with the growth rate of iTunes and selling 2 billion songs.[0:06:26]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, we are selling over 5 million songs a day, now. Isn\'92t that unbelievable?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 5 million songs a day. That\'92s 58 songs every second of every minute of every hour of every day. And the last time we talked to you, we said that we were the 5th largest music reseller in the U.S. Now all these other guys sell music on CDs, and of course we sell it online. But if you add up all the music that\'92s sold, we were the fifth-largest reseller. Because of the growth of iTunes, I am pleased to report that we have now passed Amazon. [0:06:59]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We sell more music than Amazon, and we are now number four. And you can guess who our next Target might be. So, so that\'92s an update for music.\
[0:07:15]\
Now I wanna talk about TV shows.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got awesome TV shows on iTunes. As a matter of fact we have over 350 TV shows that you can buy episodes from on iTunes. And I\'92m very pleased to report that we have sold now 50 million TV shows on iTunes. Isn\'92t that incredible? [0:07:34]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, now, let me go on to movies.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 When we started with television shows, the pioneering partner we had was the Walt Disney Company.[0:07:47]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 They decided to throw in with us and sell TV shows, and boy did it work. Well, when we decided to sell movies, they were right there with us again as our pioneering partner to sell movies. And I am really pleased to announce that in the first four months of selling movies, we have sold 1.3 million movies on iTunes, which I think has exceeded all of our expectations.[0:08:11]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And today, we have a new partner joining the Walt Disney Comany to sell movies on iTunes, and that is Paramount.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Paramount is gonna be selling movies on iTunes. And uh we\'92re thrilled because they have some awesome movies. Let me just show you a few of the titles here that are going up as we..\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 as we speak. [Cover flow of Movies]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:08:38]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 All.. all six Star Trek movies. [0:08:45]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we are gonna be moving up from the hundred movies we\'92ve offered so far to over 250 movies now offered on iTunes. These are getting up as fast as we can over the next week or so.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we hope to be adding even more movies as other studios throw in with us as 2006 rolls on. So that\'92s an update on iTunes. [0:09:05]\
Now, as I said, we had a very strong lineup of music players for this holiday season. We always have stiff competition. That\'92s just part of this business.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we had a new competitor this last holiday season, which was, of course, Microsoft\'92s Zune. [00:09:21]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So how\'92d they do? Well, we don\'92t have data for December yet, cuz it\'92s not out till next week or the week after, I forget. [NOTE: present tense]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But we have data for November, which was their launch month, should have been real big. And they garnered two percent market share.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Two percent market share. uh iPod had 62 percent market share, and the rest had 36. [0:09:43]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now again, we don\'92t have data for December. We know we went up uh uh quite a bit in December in terms of market share. And uh we\'92ll find out how they did. But two percent in their launch month.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, no matter how you try to spin this, UHM what can you say? [0:10:01]\
So that\'92s an update on how we\'92re doing in the new music business, and we\'92ve got a few new ads for iPods.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we work with some of the greatest folks to create advertising. And uh.. uh they created this.. this wonderful ad that I\'92d love to show you right now, so let me go ahead and roll it. [0:10:22]\
[Ad plays] [cough]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Whew. [0:10:58]\
Now, just to let you in on our process a little bit. These guys are incredibly creative, they couldn\'92t stop. And they took the same song, which is a uh you know uh uh uh uh a up-and-coming British pop group, and they uhm.. they took the same dancers, and they did some different animation, and they came up with what you\'92re about to see. [0:11:20]\
[Ad plays]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:11:55]\
Isn\'92t that great? So, those\'92ll be running shortly. And that is an update to our music business. [0:12:07]\
Now, I\'92d like to talk about a product we introduced in September. uh called, it was called the code name was iTV. We have a new name for it. It\'92s called Apple TV. uh but you should never, you should either go with your code name, like we did with the Mac, or you should pick a code name quite a bit \'96 a real name quite a bit different than your code name, so I\'92ll probably stumble and call this iTV five times today by mistake. I apologize. So Apple TV. [0:12:32]\
And uh Apple TV is a way to enjoy your media on your big screen TV.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s let\'92s uh backtrack and talk about what we did when we uh previewed this in September.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can buy great content on the iTunes music store: Movies, TV shows and music, of course. [0:12:49]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And you can download it to your computer, be it a PC or a Mac. I\'92m.. I\'92m gonna use a Mac here. You can put other content on your computer from other places too, of course. [0:12:57]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And you can put that content on your iPod, right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, you can go out and buy a wide-screen TV, hook up an Apple TV to it, and wirelessly transmit that content from your PC to your Apple TV and watch it on your big screen TV.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s that simple. Right? It\'92s that simple. [0:13:15]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, this is it. Let\'92s take a look at around the back at the connectors to refresh ourselves.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We have a power connector, USB 2, and Ethernet.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We have wi-fi wireless networking built in. And then we have ways to get video out. An HDMI connector, which is digital audio and video. Or component video and analog and digital audio. Right? All out the back.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Most people, however, will just use these three. They\'92ll plug it in. There\'92s no power brick necessary. And they\'92ll hook up an HDMI cable to their wide-screen TV, and they\'92ll use wireless networking to get their content. So it\'92s really, really easy to use. [0:13:50]\
And let me tell you more a little more in-depth about what this box does. First of all it delivers up to 720p high-definition video. Right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Number one.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Number two, it\'92s got a 40 gigabyte hard-drive inside it. So it will store up to 50 hours of video. Which comes in handy for something I\'92m about to show you. [0:14:10]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it has 802.11 wi-fi wireless networking, and it\'92s got all three of the popular standards. It\'92s got B, G, and the new Draft N standard, which is really, really fast. And it\'92s got an Intel processor in it, so it\'92s got the processing horsepower to do the kinds of user interfaces we like to do. [0:14:31]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So it\'92s a really cool box. It works with video, music and photos. It was designed for wide-screen TVs. It\'92s got wi-fi wireless networking, internal 40 gig hard drive.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It, you can auto-sync your content from one computer.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And you can stream content from up to five computers. So let\'92s examine this in a little more detail. Auto-sync from one computer. What does this mean?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It means you can take one of the computers in your house, and right from iTunes, just like you would set up an iPod, you could set up your Apple TV. And you can set up your Apple TV to say, oh, take my ten most recently purchased unwatched movies and automatically put them on the hard drive of Apple TV. So that whenever I walk up to Apple TV, they\'92re there. Right? [0:15:20]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let me show you, I\'92m gonna to do this with six TV shows. They just automatically, whenever I buy them, they just automatically will stream in the background to Apple TV and be stored on the hard drive. [0:15:30]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right? So whenever I go to watch something, they are there.[0:15:34]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, I can also stream from up to five computers. In this case, I\'92m gonna take content from five computers, and I can watch it on Apple TV but I will..will not store it on the hard drive.[0:15:45]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right, so you can just stream it live and watch it from other computers in the house. Or if your neighbor comes over with a.. a notebook and they\'92ve got something cool that you wanna watch on your widescreen TV. Again, PCs or Macs, I just choose the computer that I like. [0:15:57]\
So, this is Apple TV, and oh why don\'92t we go ahead and show it to you? You can control it with this very simple remote. So let\'92s go see a demo. [0:16:06]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is the screen saver. Takes all your photographs here and just puts them on your TV and they\'92re gorgeous, because as you know, phot\'85photography these days is high-def, with these amazing digital cameras that we have. [0:16:21]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, let\'92s go into the main menu of iTV, and uh here\'92s what it looks like. We\'92ve got movies, TV shows, music, podcasts, photos. So let\'92s go into movies here. And we go into movies and uh, let\'92s see here now, we have uhm all my movies that are stored on iTV, as well as the iTunes top movies. I can go see what\'92s selling on iTunes and stream it down and watch it on iTV. I can also look at theatrical trailers. Again, this is not stored on iTV. This is actually coming over the live Internet. Into my house through my Internet gateway, wirelessly to i \'96 to Apple TV, and I can watch theatrical trailers streaming right from Apple.com. So let\'92s go in here. [0:17:08]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh what\'92s a cool trailer? Uhmmm gonna watch..yeah this one called the Good Shepherd. [Mumbling where\'92d it go..oh G.. Good Shepard, there we go]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Boom. So let\'92s watch this, I just click on it, and this is streaming live from Apple.com. [0:17:23]\
[Movie trailer] [0:18:01]\
So you get the idea. You can sit on your couch and watch theatrical movie trailers with iTV.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, let\'92s back up here, and let\'92s go play a movie. uhm We\'92ve got Zoolander here. Let\'92s go play a little part of Zoolander. One of our new Paramount movies.[0:18:17]\
[Movie clip] [0:19:07]\
Isn\'92t this great?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, that\'92s movies, and uh let\'92s go take a look at uh at in ZooTV shows here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s\'85. again, incredibly cool. Let\'92s go into uh \'93Heroes,\'94 a really great new show, and uh let\'92s play an episode called Better Halves. [0:19:26]\
[TV clip] [0:20:47]\
[Chuckles]. OK, well, that\'92s TV shows. And uh Now let me show you uh music.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, iTV, of course is \'96 Apple TV is uh primarily for video, but it turns out it\'92s awesome for listening to music on your home theater system, as well. We think a lot of people are going to buy it uh buy it for that.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we\'92ve got music here, we\'92ve got the iTunes top music and top music videos.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh let me go down into a playlist here. [0:21:15]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh, We\'92ve got a favorites playlist, I\'92ll go into that.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I\'92ll just shuffle some songs, cause I wanna show you what it\'92s like when you\'92re playing music here. [0:21:24]\
[Music plays] [cough]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:21:44]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So it does that so it doesn\'92t burn a hole in your uh plasma TV there.[0:21:48]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh we can go ahead and just go to the next track here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 next track.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So that\'92s what it\'92s like to play music. [0:22:07]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alright. [0:22:12]\
So now let\'92s go to photos. You know, Again, your photos are high-def. These new digital cameras are awesome. [0:22:19]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so you can just, again, move your photos to iTV or stream them over, over wireless networking. And see your photos right on your TV. So as an example, here\'92s a photo album I made of uh. [0:22:33]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [slideshow plays with music]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 just beautiful.\
[0:23:04]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So you get the idea. It\'92s really cool to watch photos on your widescreen TV.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:23:10]\
Now, uh what I\'92ve been demonstrating so far uh is primarily content that has been synced to Apple TV from my computer and I\'92d like to show you what it\'92s like uh when you uh wanna connect to someone else\'92s computer. [0:23:24]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s say uh Phil Schiller my neighbor comes over and uh he\'92s got his MacBook and.. Phil, what do you got on your MacBook. You got some content we could watch? [0:23:31]\
[Phil Schiller]\
[0:23:35]\
Great, Well, let me just go down here to sources, and uh here\'92s the uh you know Apple TV that I\'92ve been playing off the hard drive of, and I just say I wanna connect to a new iTunes right here, and iTunes is running on Phil\'92s machine. It says type in this PIN, for security reasons, and Phil types in the PIN into his MacBook and uh the minute. They\'92re fully authenticated now, and there\'92s Phil\'92s MacBook right up there and I push it, and now I\'92m gonna be looking at the content right off of Phil\'92s MacBook and what you wanna watch, Phil? [0:24:07]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Phil Schiller]\
Alright, here we go. Which one?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Phil Schiller]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alright go to 30 Rock here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Phil Schiller]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'85 Jack meets Dennis, OK, great. Here we go. [0:24:21]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re streaming off of Phil\'92s MacBook to this Apple TV live. [0:24:24]\
[30 Rock clip]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [0:25:05]\
Alright, so, Thanks Phil.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Phil Schiller]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That is Apple TV. [0:25:14]\
[0:25:22] So we think this is pretty cool.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Apple TV. Movies, TV shows, music and photos all on your widescreen TV.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m really excited about it. So Apple TV is gonna be priced at $299.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right? $299 for all this built in. [0:25:48]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we\'92re gonna be shipping them next month, in February, and we are taking orders starting today.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, Apple TV. Enjoy your media on your big-screen TV. We think this is gonna be really something quite special. Apple TV.[0:26:09]\
[0:26:22]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is a day I\'92ve been looking forward to for two-and-a-half years.[0:26:28]\
Every once in a while, a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything. And Apple has been \'96 well, first of all, one\'92s very fortunate if you get to work on just one of these in your career.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Apple\'92s been very fortunate. It\'92s been able to introduce a few of these into the world.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In 1984, we introduced the Macintosh. It didn\'92t just change Apple, it changed the whole computer industry.[0:27:12]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In 2001, we introduced the first iPod, and\'85 it didn\'92t just \'96 it didn\'92t just change the way we all listen to music, it changed the entire music industry. [0:27:36]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, today, we\'92re introducing three revolutionary products of this class. [0:27:48]\
The first one: is a widescreen iPod with touch controls. [0:27:59]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The second: is a revolutionary mobile phone. [0:28:13]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And the third is a breakthrough Internet communications device.[0:28:28]\
So, three things: a widescreen iPod with touch controls; a revolutionary mobile phone; and a breakthrough Internet communications device. [0:28:44]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 An iPod, a phone, and an Internet communicator. An iPod, a phone \'85 are you getting it? [0:29:01]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 These are not three separate devices, this is one device, and we are calling it iPhone. [0:29:19]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Today, today Apple is going to reinvent the phone, and here it is. [0:29:30]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 No, actually here it is, but we\'92re gonna leave it there for now. [0:29:41]\
So, before we get into it, let me uh talk about a category of things. The most advanced phones are called smart phones. So they say. [0:29:57]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh they typically combine a phone plus some e-mail capability, plus they say it\'92s the Internet. It\'92s sort of the baby Internet, into one device, and they all have these plastic little keyboards on them.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uh And the problem is that they\'92re not so smart and they\'92re not so easy to use, so if you kinda make a\'85 Business School 101 graph of the smart axis and the easy-to-use axis, phones, regular cell phones are kinda right there, they\'92re not so smart, and they\'92re \'96 you know \'96 not so easy to use. [0:30:28]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uhm But smart phones are definitely a little smarter, but they actually are harder to use. They\'92re really complicated. Just for the basic stuff a hard time figuring out how to use them. [0:30:41]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, we don\'92t wanna do either one of these things. What we wanna do is make a leapfrog product that is way smarter than any mobile device has ever been, and super-easy to use.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what iPhone is. OK? [0:30:57]\
[0:30:59]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, we\'92re gonna reinvent the phone. [0:31:01]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, we\'92re gonna start\'85 with a revolutionary user interface.. is the result of years of research and development, and of course, it\'92s an interplay of hardware and software.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, why do we need a revolutionary user interface? I mean, Here\'92s four smart phones, right? Motorola Q, the BlackBerry, Palm Treo, Nokia E62 \'96 the usual suspects. [0:31:33]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And, what\'92s wrong with their user interfaces? Well, the problem with them is really sort of in the bottom 40 there. It\'92s, it\'92s this stuff right here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 They all have these keyboards that are there whether you need them or not to be there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And they all have these control buttons that are fixed in plastic and are the same for every application. Well, every application wants a slightly different user interface, a slightly optimized set of buttons, just for it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And what happens if you think of a great idea six months from now? You can\'92t run around and add a button to these things. They\'92re already shipped. [0:32:07]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So what do you do?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It doesn\'92t work because the buttons and the controls can\'92t change. They can\'92t change for each application, and they can\'92t change down the road if you think of another great idea you wanna add to this product. [0:32:22]\
Well, how do you solve this?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Hmm. It turns out, we have solved it! [0:32:27]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We solved it in computers 20 years ago. We solved it with a bit-mapped screen that could display anything we want. Put any user interface up. And a pointing device. We solved it with the mouse. Right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We solved this problem. So how\'92re we gonna take this to a mobile device?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 What we gonna do is get rid of all these buttons and just make a giant screen.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A giant screen. [0:32:54]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, how are we gonna communicate this? We don\'92t wanna carry around a mouse, right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So what are we gonna do? Oh, a stylus, right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna use a stylus.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 No. No. Who wants a stylus?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You have to get em and put em away, and you lose em. Yuck.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Nobody wants a stylus. So let\'92s not use a stylus.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna use the best pointing device in the world. We\'92re gonna use a pointing device that we\'92re all born with \'96 we\'92re born with ten of them. We\'92re gonna use our fingers.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna touch this with our fingers. And we have invented a new technology called multi-touch, which is phenomenal. [0:33:33]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It works like magic.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You don\'92t need a stylus. It\'92s far more accurate than any touch display that\'92s ever been shipped.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It ignores unintended touches, it\'92s super-smart.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can do multi-finger gestures on it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And boy, have we patented it. [0:33:54]\
So, so we have been very lucky to have brought a few revolutionary user interfaces to the market in our time.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 First was the mouse.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The second was the click wheel.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And now, we\'92re gonna bring multi-touch to the market. [0:34:20]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And each of these revolutionary user interfaces has made possible a revolutionary product \'96 the Mac, the iPod and now the iPhone. [0:34:30]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, a revolutionary user interface.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna build on top of that with software. Now, software on mobile phones is like is like baby software.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s not so powerful, and today we gonna show you a software breakthrough. Software that\'92s at least five years ahead of what\'92s on any other phone. [0:34:55]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now how do we do this? Well, we start with a strong foundation: iPhone runs OSX.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, why, why would we wanna run such a sophisticated operating system on a mobile device? Well, because it\'92s got everything we need.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got multi-tasking.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got the best networking.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It already knows how to power manage. We\'92ve been doing this on mobile computers for years. It\'92s got awesome security.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And the right apps.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got everything from Cocoa and the graphics and it\'92s got core animation built in and it\'92s got the audio and video that OSX is famous for.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got all the stuff we want. [0:35:43]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it\'92s built right into iPhone. And that has let us create desktop class applications and networking, right. [0:35:52]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Not the crippled stuff that you find on most phones. This is real, desktop-class applications. [0:35:59]\
Now, you know, one of the pioneers of our industry, Alan Kay, has had a lot of great quotes throughout the years. And I ran across one of them recently that explains how we look at this.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Explains why we go about doing things the way we do, cause we love software.[0:36:18]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And here\'92s the quote: \'93People who are really serious about software should make their own hardware.\'94 [0:36:25]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, Alan said this 30 years ago, and this is how we feel about it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so we\'92re bringing breakthrough software to a mobile device for the first time.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s five years ahead of anything on any other phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The second thing we\'92re doing is we\'92re learning from the iPod, syncing with iTunes.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, we\'92re gonna ship our 100 millionth iPod this year, and that\'92s a lo\'85 10s of millions of people that know how to sync these devices with their PCs or Mac and sync all of their media right on to their iPod. [0:36:59]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So you just drop your iPod in, and it automatically syncs.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You\'92re gonna do the same thing with iPhone. It automatically syncs to your PC or Mac right through iTunes.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And iTunes is gonna sync all of your media onto your iPhone: Your music, your audio books, podcasts, movies, TV shows, music videos. [0:37:19]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But it also syncs a ton of data: Your contacts, your calendars and your photos, which you can get on your iPod today, your notes, your..your bookmarks from your Web browser, your e-mail accounts, your whole e-mail set-up. All that stuff can be moved over to your iPhone completely automatically.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s really nice.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we do it, we do it through iTunes. [0:37:41]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Again, you go to iTunes and you set it up. Just like you\'92d set up an iPod or an Apple TV. And you set up what you want synced to your iPhone. And it\'92s just like an iPod. Charge and sync. So sync with iTunes.[0:37:55]\
Third thing I wanna talk about a little is design. [0:38:00]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve designed something wonderful for your hand, just wonderful.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this is what it looks like.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got a three-and-a-half-inch screen on it. It\'92s really big.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And, it\'92s the highest-resolution screen we\'92ve ever shipped. It\'92s 160 pixels per inch.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Highest we\'92ve ever shipped. It\'92s gorgeous.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And on the front, there\'92s only one button down there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We call it the home button. Takes you home from wherever you are.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And that\'92s it. Let\'92s take a look at the side. [0:38:31]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s really thin. It\'92s thinner than any smart phone out there, at 11.6 millimeters.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thinner than the Q, thinner than the BlackJack, thinner than all of them.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s really nice.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we\'92ve got some controls on the side, we\'92ve got a little switch for ring and silent, we\'92ve got a volume up and down control.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s look at the back.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 On the back, the biggest thing of note is we\'92ve got a two-megapixel camera built right in.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The other side, we\'92re back in the front.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s take a look at the top now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got a headset jack. 3 and half millimeter all your iPod headphones fit right in.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got a place, a little tray for your SIM card, and we\'92ve got one switch for sleep and wake. Just push it to go to sleep, push it to wake up. [0:39:18]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s take a look at the bottom.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got a speaker, we\'92ve got a microphone, and we\'92ve got our 30-pin iPod connector.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So that\'92s the bottom.\
Now, we\'92ve also got some stuff you can\'92t see.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got three really advanced sensors built into this phone. [0:39:38]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The first one is a proximity sensor. It senses when physical objects get close, so when you bring iPhone up to your ear, to take a phone call, it turns off the display, and it turns off the touch sensor, instantly.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, why do you wanna do that?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, one to save battery, but two, so you don\'92t get spurious inputs from your face into the touch screen.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just automatically turns them off, take it away, boom, it\'92s back on.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So it\'92s got a proximity sensor built in.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got an ambient light sensor, as well. We sense the ambient lighting conditions and adjust the brightness of the display to match the ambient lighting conditions.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Again, better user experience, saves power. [0:40:10]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And the third thing we\'92ve got is an accelerometer, so that we can tell when you switch from portrait to landscape. It\'92s pretty cool. Show it to you in a minute. So three advanced sensors built in.[0:40:22]\
So, let\'92s go ahead and turn it on.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is the size of it. It fits beautifully in the palm of your hand.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, an iPod, a phone, and an internet communicator.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s start with the iPod. You can touch your music.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can just touch your music, it\'92s so cool.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You\'92ve got a widescreen video. [0:40:51]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can find your music even faster.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Gorgeous album art on this display.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Built-in speaker, and, why not? Cover flow. First time ever on an iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So rather than talk about this some more, let me show it to you. [0:41:08]\
Alrighty.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, I\'92ve got some special \'96 some special \'96 iPhones up here, they\'92ve got a little special board in them so I can get some digital video out, and I\'92ve got a little cord here which goes up to these projectors, and uh so I\'92ve got some great images, and you get to see what it really looks like.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, let me, I\'92ve got a camera here so you can see what I\'92m doing with my finger for a few seconds [sniff].\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh let me go ahead and get that picture within picture up.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m gonna go ahead and just push the sleep/wake button and there we go, right there. [0:41:47]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And to unlock the phone I just take my finger and slide it across.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Want to see that again? Sleep.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We wanted something you couldn\'92t do by accident in your pocket.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just slide it across. Boom.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this is the home screen of iPhone right here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so if I want to get in the iPod, I just go down to that lower right hand corner and push this icon right here, and boom, I\'92m in the iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I wanna get home, I push the home button right here, and I\'92m home. [0:42:16]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Back in the iPod. I am back in the iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, here I am you see five buttons across he bottom.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Playlists, artists, songs, videos and more. I\'92m in artists right now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, how do I scroll through my lists of artists? [0:42:29]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 How do I do this? I just take my finger, and I scroll. [0:42:35]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That\'92s it. Isn\'92t that cool?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A little rubber banding up when I run off the edge.\
And if I wanna pick somebody, let\'92s say I wanna pick the Beatles, I just tap them, and here\'92s the Beatles songs with their albums right here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 If I wanna play Sgt. Pepper\'92s I just hit Sgt. Pepper\'92s right there, and uh \'93A Little Help From My Friends.\'94 [0:43:00]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Look at this gorgeous album artwork here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Of course, I\'92ve got a volume control.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, I\'92ve got a little button up in the corner right here, you can see in the upper right-hand corner, I can hit that and flip the album art around.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There\'92s all the other songs back here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I can play \'93Lovely Rita\'94 if I want to.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Flip it back around. Very simple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right, I can set some stars back here just by setting the arrows. Right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That\'92s a five star album. Isn\'92t that cool? Yeah, it\'92s pretty nice.[0:43:40]\
Now, let me show you something else.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I just take my unit here, and I turn it landscape mode, oh, look what happens!\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m in cover flow.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s go into Dylan here, let\'92s play \'93Like a Rolling Stone.\'94\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I just thumb through, just thumb through my albums.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s really easy.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Anytime I find something I like, I can just turn it around, and play something.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s that easy.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [playing around with different music]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s that simple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Isn\'92t that great? Yeah.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alright. I could play with this for a long time. uh [0:45:05]\
Now, Again, I\'92ve got playlists here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can go into my playlists. I\'92ve got artists. I\'92ve got songs.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Uh I\'92ve got more over here. I\'92ve got you know \'96 albums.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve got a great album view again that shows all my album artwork right here if I want.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uh And uh I\'92ve also got audio books and compilations and things like that.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve also got videos here. [0:45:24]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I push videos and uh I\'92ve got here i\'92ve got a podca.. video podcast loaded on, and a music video.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I\'92ve got a TV show and a movie, and I\'92d like you to just show the uh TV show here. This is an episode from The Office. All videos we look at in uh.. in landscape. [0:45:38]\
[Video plays \'96 The Office] [0:46:33]\
We have touch controls on here, of course.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Isn\'92t that awesome? Isn\'92t that awesome?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s go uh\'85 [0:45:40]\
Now I wanna show you uh a movie playing. Let\'92s play Pirates of the Caribbean, the second one, here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Great movie, by the way. And uh\'85 [0:46:48]\
[Movie plays] [continues to talk]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now this is a widescreen movie so I just double-tap and I can see the whole thing here, or I can fill up the screen, whichever I like.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [stops talking]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [watches movie]\
And again, I\'92ve got on-screen controls here. Isn\'92t this cool? [0:47:15]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we can be watching feature-length movies just like this.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alrighty. So that \'96 is the iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Pretty cool, huh? [0:47:30]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve just started. So again, touch your music. [0:47:38]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 scroll through your songs, scroll through your playlists. [0:47:41]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s incredible. Widescreen video like you\'92ve never seen on a portable device, 160 pixels per inch, gorgeous screen quality.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Gorgeous album art, and cover flow. [0:47:54]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s the best iPod we\'92ve ever made.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Again, some of the screen shots [sniff]. It\'92s unbelievable.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Here\'92s some album art I just put up, so you can see what it looks like.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just, no matter what you like, it looks pretty doggone gorgeous.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And of course, cover flow and video, with on-screen controls.[0:48:28]\
You know, I was showing this to somebody \'96\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I was giving a demo to somebody a little while ago, who had never seen this before, inside Apple. And I uh finished the demo, I said what do you think.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 He told me this, he said, you had me at scrolling. [0:48:45]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, the iPhone with the most amazing iPod ever.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can now touch your music. [0:48:55]\
So that\'92s the iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, let\'92s take a look at a revolutionary phone. [0:49:02]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We wanna reinvent the phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, what\'92s the killer app?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The killer app is making calls!\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s amazing, it\'92s amazing how hard it is to make calls on most phones.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Most people actually dial them every time. [0:49:19]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Most people don\'92t have very many numbers in their address book they use their recents as their address book. Right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 How many of you do that? I bet more than a few.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, we wanna let you use contacts like never before.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can sync your iPhone with your PC or Mac and bring down all your contacts right into your phone. So you\'92ve got everybody\'92s numbers with you at all times. [0:49:41]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We have something that\'92s going to revolutionize voice mail today. We call it visual voice mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Wouldn\'92t it be great \'96 if you didn\'92t \'96 if you had six voice mails if you didn\'92t have to listen to five of them first before you wanted to listen to the sixth?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Wouldn\'92t that be great if you had random access voice mail? [0:49:58]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, we\'92ve got it. Just like e-mail you can go directly to the voice mails that interest you. Excellent audio audio quality. iPhone is a quad-band, GSM plus Edge phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We have decided, we decided, to go with the most popular international standard, which is GSM. We\'92re on that bandwagon, headed on that roadmap, and uh plan to make 3G phones and all sorts of other amazing things in the future. So, quad-band GSM plus edge, and of course we have wi-fi and Bluetooth 2.0 EDR built in, as well.[0:50:34]\
[0:50:36]\
And so this is what it looks like when you get a call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what it sounds like. It\'92s one of our ring tones, you can pick of course.[0:50:45]\
So, I wanna show you four things.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I wanna show you the phone app, photos, got a calendar, and SMS messaging. [0:50:00]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The kind of things you would find on a typical phone, but in a very untypical way now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go ahead and take a look.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go to our phone, first. [0:51:17]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You see that uh icon in the lower left-hand corner, the phone?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I just push it right here, and boom, I\'92m in the phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I\'92ve got five buttons across the bottom: favorites, recents, contacts, keypad and voice mail. I\'92m in contacts, right now, again. How do I move around my contacts?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I just scroll through them.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so, let\'92s say I wanna make a call to Jony Ive.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can just push here, and I see Jony Ive\'92s context, with all his information: his three phone numbers, his e-mail, whatever else, his address, whatever else I\'92ve got.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s all in one place.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And if I wanna call Jony, all I do is push his phone number. I\'92ll call his mobile number right now. And now, we are calling Jony here.\
[0:52:07] Hey, Jony, how you doing?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, it\'92s been 2 and a half years, and I.. I can\'92t tell you how thrilled I am to make the first public phone call with iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'85 I remember when we first started working on this, and it\'92s.. it\'92s just unbelievable. Wah, whoa, what is this? I\'92ve got another call coming in. Jony, can I put you on hold for a minute? Ok. So I put Jony on hold and \'85\
Hi Phil.[0:52:44]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Schiller says: Hey, Steve, I wanted to be the first call!\'94]\
Sorry Phil! As you can see, it\'92s pu.. put Jony on hold, and Phil, I can just touch Jony and bring Jony back. Hey, Jony are you there?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Hey listen, uh Phil called. Do you mind if I conference him in?\
[\'93I guess so,\'94 Ive says]\
You can see the m.. uh button has changed to merge calls right there in the middle, so I just push that right here, and now, I\'92ve created a conference call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Jony, you there? Phil, you there?\
So here we are, and uh listen I gotta get back to my keynote, so uh if I wanna do that, what i\'92m gonna.. I just touch this arrow right here, and uh I\'92m gonna go ahead and take Jony private here and uh put Phil on hold. Jony, do you have anything to say on the first phone call? [0:53:43]\
[\'93It\'92s not too shabby is it?\'94 Ive says]\
It\'92s not too shabby. You take care, Jony.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I end this call. and it..Phil\'92s on hold. I take him off of hold.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Phil, thanks very much, I gotta get back to the keynote now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Bye-Bye.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alrighty.[0:54:02]\
So, now I\'92ve also got a way to make a list of favorites here, from my most-often called numbers so I can just touch it once and dial.. dial the number.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I might wanna add somebody to favorites, so let\'92s say I wanna add Phil Schiller, I just push that plus button in the upper right-hand corner right there, and up pop my favorites, and I can just go to uh \'93S\'94 is here and there\'92s Phil, so uh Phil Schiller is right there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh I\'92ll put, let\'92s say I wanna put Phil\'92s work number, and it\'92s added Phil, right there you can see the favorites.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can edit favorites by pushing the edit button in the upper left-hand corner, and I can move Phil up if I want to,you know maybe to the top.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh let\'92s see, i\'92m not gonna.. you know type Tony\'92s changed his number I\'92ve got to update this anyway, so I\'92m gonna get rid of that and I can just remove Tony. Boom, there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s that simple to edit these things. Very, very easy.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve got recents right here, which is all my recent phone calls. [0:55:02]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 If I wanna see the ones I\'92ve missed, which are in red, I can just go up and touch that button at the top, and boom, those are all the ones I\'92ve missed, and those are all the calls that I\'92ve placed or have gotten.[0:55:14]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 If I wanna dial the phone, if I\'92m real last-century, I can push keypad here, and uh I can dial a call just with \'85 oops, called four, sorry.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Wrong number.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uh 408 uh 996-1010.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it formats the numbers and uh if I want to, I can just keep dialing, let\'92s say it\'92s a European number, and the numbers just keep getting smaller, real simple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Very simple to dial with the keypad.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now let me show you visual voice mail. This is so cool.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is a collaboration that we\'92ve done, which I\'92ll talk more about later, and uh it allows us to have random access voice mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Go directly to the voice mails we want.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So as an example, I come to my voice mail, and I say, oh, there\'92s one by Al Gore.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I wanna hear that one. I just push it. [Congratulatory message from Al Gore plays.]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Sniff] [0:56:20]\
Now, if I wanna call Al back right now, I can just push that call back button.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But I wanna listen to one from Tim Cook I\'92ve got here, so let me listen to Tim.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Message plays with Joke about revenue]\
Isn\'92t this awesome.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so I\'92ve got voice mail how I wanna listen to it, when I wanna listen to it, in any order I wanna listen to it with visual voice mail. [0:56:49]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So that is a quick tour of the phone app.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now what I wanna do is show you SMS texting.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I just go to that SMS icon in the upper-left-hand corner and push it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I not only have SMS texting, but I have multiple sessions.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I can be carrying on conversations with people, and every time I get a new message from them, I\'92ll be alerted to that, and go check it out.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So. As an example here, I\'92ve got Eddie Q and I\'92ve been carrying on a conversation with Eddie, and I just tap this, and here\'92s the conversation I\'92ve been carrying on right here, right. [0:57:22]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And if there\'92s a new message it will tell me.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so there\'92s a new message from Phil, and uh let\'92s see the conversation was what: [0:57:27]\
[SMS messages:]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Hey Steve\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Hi\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Still on for dinner tonight?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 absolutely\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 your turn to pick\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 hmmm I pick Sushi Ran\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 how about 7 o clock tonight?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 and I say, I can can just say, you know\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 sounds great\
[0:57:37]\
And I\'92ve got this little keyboard which is phenomenal.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It does error prot uh prevention and correction.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Not that I won\'92t make some, I probably will. [0:57:45]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But it\'92s actually really fast to type on. It\'92s faster than all these little plastic keyboards on all these smart phones.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I can just say sounds great, see you there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I can send that. And there it is, right.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s that simple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And when Phil messages me back, I\'92ll be alerted, I\'92ll see the dot, and I can just go pick up that conversation where it left off.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 If I wanna send a message to Eddie I or Scott, I just push this and send a message and go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s so simple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So that\'92s SMS messaging, and uh you know again, you\'92ve seen the keyboard, it\'92s pretty awesome. We\'92ll come back to that a little bit later.\
And the third app I wanna show you as part of the phone package is photos.[0:58:42]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, we have a two-megapixel camera built in, as I said. We also have the coolest photo management app uh ever, certainly on a mobile device, but I think maybe ever.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh so here\'92s uh here\'92s our photos. I\'92m going to go into our photo library, and this is our library and again, I can just scroll through photos here with my finger.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Pretty cool. Let me go to uh photo album, I\'92ll pick Italy, and I just uh, let\'92s start at the top.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And to go through pictures, I just swipe them. [0:59:09]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can just swipe through my photo library. Oh There\'92s one that\'92s uh that\'92s landscape. I can just turn my device and take a look at it. Pretty cool, huh?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So.. Alright? So I can even swipe when I\'92m in landscape here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yeah? Isn\'92t this awesome?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The other thing I can do is uh I can take any of these pictures and uh I can make them bigger. And uh So let me go ahead and get the camera back up yeah there it is right there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can uh.. I can just take my fingers and I can, we call it the pinch, I can bring them closer together and move them further apart to make it bigger or smaller.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And So I can just move them further apart and stretch the image.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Isn\'92t that cool? [0:59:54]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can move it around, and \'85 isn\'92t that cool?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And now, now what I can do is I can uh pick to uh make this my uh wallpaper.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And of course, I could you know.. jigger it around then and just set the wallpaper, and now when I uh if I\'92m back at home and I go to sleep, when I wake up from here on out, until I reset it, that\'92s my wallpaper. [1:00:22]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Whenever I\'92m making a call, that\'92s what I\'92m gonna see. Boom.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There we go. So photos, SMS and the phone app. [1:00:31]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That is part of our phone package for iPhone.\
[1:00:44] Get a call, again, really great call management features, just scroll through contacts with your finger.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 All the information at your fingertips here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Favorites, last century, visual voice mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Calendar, SMS texting, incredible photo app, the ability to just take any picture and make it your wallpaper.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s pretty unbelievable, and I think when you have a chance to get your hand on it, you\'92ll agree, we have reinvented the phone. OK. [1:01:23]\
So, now, let\'92s take a look at an Internet communications device as part of iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So what\'92s this all about?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, we\'92ve got some real breakthroughs here.[1:01:41]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 To start off with, we\'92ve got rich, html e-mail on iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The first time really rich e-mail on a mobile device. And it works with any IMAP or POP e-mail service. You got your favorite mail service, it\'92ll likely work with it. [1:01:59]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it\'92s rich text e-mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We wanted the best web browser in the world on our phone, not a baby web browser or a WAP browser, a real Web browser, and we picked the best one in the world, Safari, and we have Safari running on iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It is the first fully usable html browser on a phone.\
Third, we have Google Maps.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Maps, satellite images, directions and traffic. [1:02:34]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is unbelievable, wait til you see it. We have widgets, starting off with weather and stocks. And this communicates with the Internet over EDGE and wi-fi.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And iPhone automatically detects wi-fi and switches seamlessly to.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You don\'92t have to manage the network. It just does the right thing.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, I wanna take a second and talk about email. we hook up to almost any IMAP or POP3 mail service. I just want to give you some examples. IMAP of course is the best because you can keep your folders and all your e-mail on the server and access it from anywhere.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uh Yahoo E.. Yahoo Mail is IMAP. Microsoft Exchange has an IMAP option. And obviously .Mac mail is IMAP, as well.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 POP3, Google Gmail, AOL Mail, and most ISPs are POP3 e-mail. [1:03:27]\
Now, I wanna take a minute and highlight one.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yahoo Mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yahoo Mail is the biggest mail service in the world.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 They have over a quarter billion users.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Biggest e-mail service in the world, and today, we are announcing with Yahoo that they are going to provide free push IMAP e-mail to all iPhone customers. [1:03:51]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, this isn\'92t just IMAP e-mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It is push IMAP e-mail. So when you get a message, it will push it right out to the phone for you. Same as a BlackBerry. Free IMAP push e-mail from Yahoo.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we think this is a pretty big deal.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So what I\'92d like to do now is I\'92d like to show you:\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Mail, Safari, Google Maps and widgets running on iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go see. [1:04:19]\
So let\'92s go into mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Second icon from the left on the bottom there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I just touch it with my finger, and boom, I\'92m there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so I\'92ve got an in-box here, and this is, by the way, running live on Yahoo IMAP e-mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This stuff is coming off a Yahoo server somewhere up in the cloud.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh so I can say James Vincent here sent me an e-mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And he\'92s a proud father.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And there we there we go. And I can just scroll here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve got in-line photos, rich text e-mail. there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s look at another one. Phil Schiller. [1:05:02]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 She loved the gift.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Again, in-line photos, rich text, pretty nice.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Shopping list. [1:05:12] Again, rich text right here. Pretty cool.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Directions to Sushi Ran for tonight\'92s dinner.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, iPhone of course parses out phone numbers and as you can see there\'92s a phone number in blue.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can just touch it, and boom, I\'92m gonna call this place.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I don\'92t really wanna call them so I\'92m going to end the call here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But you get the idea.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh this last one uh, Ken Bereskin is uh one of our marketing folks.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 He just returned from Antarctica. Ken\'92s a great photographer, and he took all these great photos of uh of penguins in Antarctica. [1:05:47]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s really cool. Look at this, it\'92s great. Right in your e-mail, right on your phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And if I want to \'96 by the way \'96 , I can uh look at my e-mail with a split view just like I do on my computer, and so I can select something here and just look at it down here if I want to peruse my messages real fast and just find that one message I was looking for.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But I actually like the full-screen view.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And of course, we have a standard in-box and drafts, and sent, and eh and and all sorts of folders you can put things in as well.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So it\'92s real e-mail, just like you\'92re used to uh on your computer, right here on your phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s extraordinary.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And again, free IMAP e-mail from Yahoo.[1:06:26]\
Now, let me go ahead and just uh create an e-mail message.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Show you what that\'92s like.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So again, when I don\'92t need a keyboard it\'92s not there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 When I do, it\'92s there. I want to send a message to uh, let\'92s say, Phil.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I just type PH, and boom, Phil Schiller, it\'92s address completion and maybe I\'92ll send one to Scott Forrestal, as well, and there\'92s Scott right there, and uh let\'92s say the subject is uh dinner.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Dinner and uh.. uh. you know. oops.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 See you tonight. Boom, and I just hit send.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Sends that e-mail, and we\'92re done.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So that is mail. Full desktop class e-mail running on a mobile device. [1:07:21]\
Alright, now I wanna show you something incredible.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I wanna show you Safari running on a mobile device.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go to the Web, and here we are.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m gonna load in, rather than apple.com here, a.. a little uh.. more universal site.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m gonna load in the New York Times, it\'92s kind of a slow site because it\'92s got a lot of images, but here we are loading and we\'92re loading over wi-fi right now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And rather than just give you a WAP version of the New York Times, rather than give you this wrapped version all around, we\'92re showing you the whole New York Times Web site, and there it is.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And Guess what I can do, I can just put this into landscape mode, and there it is right there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I can scroll here if I want.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Scroll up and down here. Still loading it in.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There we go. Or I can just get back like this. [1:08:19]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, this is really great and I can see the whole page but of course I can\'92t read it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s a little too small. So I can get in with my fingers and pinch it but we have an optimization here. I can just double-tap on anything and it automatically fills up the screen with it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I can just scroll around like this and scroll over here and I can even make this text bigger if I want to, and there it is. [1:08:39]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just double-tap again to get back to the full page. Isn\'92t this cool?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I can just. Look at this.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There is the New York Times. And again, any article I want, boom, there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Boom. Unbelievable.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, you can look at multiple Web pages as well. You can have multiple Web pages open. So I just push this button in the lower-right hand corner.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Shrinks it down, and I can add a new page if I want.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh I\'92ll go to uh Amazon here out of my bookmarks.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go to Amazon. And I love to go the DVD section of Amazon and see what DVDs are selling.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I like it especially when Disney\'92s are at the top.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Uh, [cough] And, uh so here\'92s Amazon coming, and even before the whole page is loaded on, I\'92m just going to double-tap on this, and.. and uh I\'92m gonna say let\'92s go to the DVD section here, and now it\'92s doing that.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And here we are. [1:09:51]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And there\'92s a section over here on the right hand side, right there, and these are the top sellers, updated hourly.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Oh look, Al\'92s Inconvenient Truth is number one.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alright. And here\'92s all the other movies.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Grey\'92s Anatomy, I like that. Pirates of the Caribbean. Fantastic.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so I\'92ve got this right here, and I can go back to the New York Times if I want.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know. Zoom up to that picture so we can all see it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And again, here isn\'92t this cool?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just go over there and go back to this one.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can get rid of them just by hitting the X. And there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Isn\'92t that incredible? Safari.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, if you\'92ve ever used what\'92s called a Web browser on a mobile phone, you\'92ll know how incredible this is.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I hope you\'92ll never really know, because it\'92s it\'92s bad out there today, and this is a revolution of the first order, to really bring the real Internet to your phone.[1:10:57]\
Let me show you something about widgets here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uh Let\'92s go to stocks right now, i\'92m gonna load stock information off the Web, and uh just right onto the phone here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Oh, look, Apple\'92s up!\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That\'92s great! [1:11:13]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, I could look at different graphs here if I want to.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh that\'92s fantastic. Let\'92s look at the percentages here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Oh, good. Good good. So I\'92ve got stocks right here, and uh I can go look at the weather.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s see what uh what it\'92s like outside.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 49 degrees, but it\'92s supposed to get to 61 today, so that\'92s good.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ll just stay in here until it warms up.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, I\'92ve got uh Paris right here. I can have as many of these as I want, so it\'92s nighttime in Paris. It\'92s actually warmer in Paris at night than it is here today.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Wow. Aspen, well, no snow til later in the week. [1:11:53]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And Hawaii. Oh, it\'92s raining, that\'92s not good.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, anyway, here\'92s four places. Hawaii, Aspen, Paris and San Francisco, and again, the weather widget. [1:12:06]\
Now, to conclude with the Internet device section here, I wanna show you something truly remarkable, which is, Google Maps on iPhone.[1:12:18]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I hit our maps application here and it\'92s coming up.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it shows us North America, and I\'92m gonna go to Moscone West.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That\'92s where we are right now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And here we are. Boom.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That\'92s where we are. Now, what I\'92m gonna do, is I\'92m gonna go uh look for something.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m I\'92m gonna certainly want a cup of coffee afterwards, so I\'92m just gonna look for Starbucks, right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Starbucks, so I\'92m gonna search for Starbucks, and sure enough, there\'92s all the Starbucks.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, I can get a list of Starbucks here, so I can pick that one if I want, and I can even go look at that Starbucks, and there it is, and let\'92s give em a call. [1:13:02]\
[Good morning, Starbucks, how can I help you?]\
Yes, I\'92d like to order 4,000 lattes to go, please.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 No, just kidding, wrong number. Thank you. Bye-bye. OK. [1:13:25]\
Now, I can zoom in by just again pinching if I want to.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Or I can just double click to zoom in, and uh I get just uh higher and higher resolution versions of the map.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go somewhere else here that I\'92ve got bookmarked.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh Let\'92s go to the Washington Monument.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so here\'92s Washington, D.C, and I could uh just double-tap and uh I\'92m going in a little further here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just double-tapping in. [1:13:57]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And there\'92s the Washington Monument there, and I\'92ll double-tap in again.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh but now I wanna show you something else. Satellite images.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I just hit this button called satellite down at the bottom. and It\'92s gonna replace the map with satellite images, there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh I can just double-tap in, and double-tap in again.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh let\'92s it\'92s catching up to me.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And let\'92s double-tap in again.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is the Washington Monument.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There we go. Look at this.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I can see people down there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Whoops, there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yep. Isn\'92t that incredible.[1:14:38]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right on my phone! It\'92s unbelievable.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So let\'92s go, uh I\'92ve got another one, uh the Eiffel Tower, which is very cool.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I set this one uh to be uh, look at this, there\'92s the Eiffel tower.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There\'92s people at the Eiffel Tower you can see.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Look at that. isn\'92t that incredible.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And here, one last one I have to show you, the Colosseum in Rome. [1:14:59]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So again, here we are in Rome. That\'92s as far as we can go with the map, but we can go a little further with the satellite.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There\'92s the Colosseum. There\'92s the Roman Colosseum.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Satellite imagery, right on the phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Look at that. That\'92s the Colosseum. Unbelievable.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Right on the phone. What\'92d\'92ya you think? Isn\'92t that incredible? [1:15:27]\
So, So, all these amazing things.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is a breakthrough Internet communicator built right into iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The first rich html e-mail on a phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The first real Web browser on a phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Best version of Google Maps on the planet, widgets, and all with Edge and wi-fi networking. We\'92re very, very happy with this. [1:15:56]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Again, e-mail. Push e-mail IMAP free Yahoo and almost any other IMAP and POP mail service you wanna hook up to.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Incredible new technology for entering text.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Far better than we\'92ve seen on phones before.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A real browser on the phone. We can see real Web pages in portrait or landscape.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We can zoom in on what we wanna take a look at more closely.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Google Maps and widgets.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s the Internet in your pockets for the first time ever.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, you can\'92t you can\'92t really think about the Internet, of course, without thinking about Google, right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And for Google, what we have on our phone, working with them is of course Google search, we have that built right into the browser.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just type what you want, hit Google and you\'92re off.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And Google Maps. We\'92ve been working very closely with them to make this all happen.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re thrilled with the results, and it\'92s my pleasure now to introduce Dr. Eric Schmidt, Google\'92s CEO. [1:17:05]\
[1:17:07] [Eric Schmidt] [1:19:47]\
As a boardmember you\'92ll get one of the first ones. [1:19:51]\
Ok, now, you also can\'92t think about the Internet without thinking about Yahoo.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And again on the phone, we\'92ve got Yahoo Search built right in, you can select which one you wanna use.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Just type in something, hit that Yahoo button and boom, you\'92re off.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And of course, we also have Yahoo IMAP e-mail services.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so, it is my great pleasure to introduce Jerry Yang, co-founder and chief Yahoo. Jerry. [1:20:26]\
[Jerry says, \'93congrats\'94]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 thank you\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Jerry says, \'93thank you\'94]\
[1:20:38]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Jerry Yang]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [1:22:49]\
[1:22:56] Thanks. You know, it\'92s been great having the two greatest companies on the Web right down the block.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Google and Yahoo.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we\'92ve been able to work with these guys really closely, and it\'92s been an incredible pleasure to work on this great technology and bring it to everybody in iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So thank you guys so much. You\'92ve really helped us put the Internet in your pocket. [1:23:18]\
[1:23:20]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, Internet communicator, an iPod and a phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s put them all together and see what you can do in a real-life scenario.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, let\'92s take a look.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92m uh I wanna listen to some music, so I\'92m gonna go into my iPod here and uh let\'92s see uh, in artists, I wanna listen to uh, oh, maybe Red Hot Chili Peppers, I love those guys.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so I\'92m listening to a song of theirs. [1:23:57]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [1:23:58] [music plays]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And let\'92s see what happens when I get a phone call. [1:24:06]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Music fades out. Screen changes. Got a phone call coming in.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I can ignore it, but I think I\'92m gonna answer it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I\'92ll answer it. Howdy. Hi Phil.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now it knows who Phil is cause he is in my address book.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So it puts his little picture here and everything up there. Uh Hi Phil Listen I\'92m kind of busy right now. What can I do for you?\
[Schiller discussion.]\
Oh, OK, uh hold on just a sec.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I push the home button here, down at the bottom on my \'96 go home right here, and I\'92m still on the call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can see the uh the phone thing flashing right there on the lower left.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I go into photos and now I\'92m in photos and again you can see the bar across the top, the green bar, I can just touch that to return to the call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh Phil wants a photo that uh he wanted to use it for his screensaver, it was one of the ones that was taken in Hawaii, I think it was this one.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yep, there it is. So you want me to mail this to you, Phil?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alright, So I again I just go down here and push this button, and rather than use it as wallpaper, I\'92m going to e-mail it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh So watch what happens now.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It shrinks it a little bit, and then a compose windows will come up right behind it. [1:25:21]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There we go. And uh I will uh just tap in the to field and send this to Phil here, Phil Schiller there we go.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh the e-mail is there, yep, it\'92s there, and I\'92m just gonna send it.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Hey, Phil, that should be on its way right now. [1:25:36]\
Yup, Any else?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uhm Let me go check it out.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I Got uh.. I think I\'92ve got Fandango in my uh bookmarks here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh, Yes, I do. Let\'92s go to Fandango, figure out what movies are playing.\
Yeah, ok. Here is fandango let\'92s just double tap and here is the movies playing.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 yep. How about we go see uh \'93night at the museum\'94? I haven\'92t seen that yet. [1:26:15]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Great, alrighty. Hey, take care Phil.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 now what I\'92m gonna do is: To go back to my uh call I just touch the top here, and I\'92m back at my call, and I\'92m just gonna go ahead and end the call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh What happens now?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Back in my music.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, this is what it\'92s like when you put it all together. [1:26:50]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 iPhone. Today Apple is reinventing the phone. [1:26:56]\
Now how does this stack up.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s go back to to these guys.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let\'92s take a look.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, these are their these are their home screens.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And again, as you recall, this is iPhone\'92s home screen.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uhm this this is what their contacts look like.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what iPhone\'92s contacts look like, and again, you just pick one and you see everything about that person, all the information you have. [1:27:23]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what mail looks like on these smart phones.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Again this what mail looks like on iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You have rich, html, rich text e-mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what calendars look like on these guys.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what calendars look like on iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what the Web looks like, and we tried to make it look as good as we could on these.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It usually looks worse and this is what you get, and of course, this is what you get on iPhone, and you can zoom in and see anything you want.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this is what you get for music players, nobody really uses them much.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Uh and this is what you get on iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So after today, I don\'92t think anyone is gonna look at these phones quite the same way again.[1:28:11]\
Now let me tell you about some accessories we\'92ve got for iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Got some great stereo headphones we\'92re gonna be shipping.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh they\'92ve got a little addition to them, which is this little thing right over here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s a microphone and a switch, so you can talk, uh you have them in there, you can get a call and just talk.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 they\'92ve Beautiful reception on the microphone. And just push it together to answer a call or hang up on a call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And So you can be wearing them and..\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It just dangles right there and picks up your voice beautifully.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we also have a Bluetooth accessory headset that we\'92re gonna be shipping and there it is right there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s incredibly small and uh just to let you see what it looks like, it\'92s got one button on the top for answering and hanging up a phone call.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You never have to turn it off or on. It just goes to sleep.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It automatically pairs with iPhone so you don\'92t have to worry about pairing.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s really simple. And uh it\'92s very tiny.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is what it looks like in-ear. It\'92s just beautiful.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s the coolest one that we\'92ve ever seen.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So Bluetooth headset coming as well.[1:29:12]\
Battery life. There\'92s a lot of stuff.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A lot of these phones, a lot of these smart phones have pretty pretty low battery lives.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve managed to get five hours of battery, and that\'92s for talk time, video or browsing.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Five hours of battery life, and 16 hours of audio playback.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So that\'92s dramatically better than any of these smart phones.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There is a tremendous amount of high technology in iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve been pushing the state of the art in every facet of this design.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So lemme just talk a little bit about it here.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve got the multi-touch screen. A first.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Miniaturization, more than we\'92ve done before.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A lot of custom silicon.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Tremendous power management.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 OSX[cough] inside a mobile device.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Featherweight precision enclosures.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Three advanced sensors.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Desktop class applications, and of course, the widescreen video iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve been innovating like crazy for the last few years on this, and we filed for over 200 patents for all the inventions in iPhone, and we intend to protect them. [1:30:35]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So, a lot of high technology.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I think we\'92re advancing the state of the art in every aspect of this design.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So iPhone is like having your life in your pocket. It\'92s the ultimate digital device. [1:30:53]\
So what should we price it at?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, what do these things normally cost?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 An iPod, the most popular iPod, $199 for 4 gig nano.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 What\'92s a smart phone cost?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, they say you get the phone and some of the Internet with it, although that\'92s questionable. But they cost somewhere around $299. You can get them for $199. Palm just introduced one at $399 yesterday, so they generally average about $299 with a two-year contract. [01:31:28]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, these phones sort of do music but nobody uses them for music because they\'92re not very good and so they end up buying an iPod to go with the phone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We know, we sell the iPod. [01:31:36]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so people spend $499 on this combination.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 What should we charge for iPhone? [01:31:46]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Cause iPhone has got a lot more than this stuff, right.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got video. Real video.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got wha\'85 this beautiful gorgeous wide screen.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got multi-touch user interface. It\'92s got wi-fi.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got a real browser. It\'92s got html e-mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It\'92s got coverflow and on and on and on.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this stuff would normally cost hundreds of dollars.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So how much more than $499 should we price iPhone? [01:32:15]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, we thought long and hard about it, because iPhone just does so much stuff.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So much better experience on call, on managing your contacts, and visual voice mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Random access voice mail for the first time.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Texting and e-mail and real browser and Google Maps.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Tremendous iPod and cover flow and video.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 What should we price this thing at?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Well, for a 4 gigabyte model, we\'92re gonna price it at that same $499. No premium whatsoever. $499.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we\'92re gonna have an 8 gigabyte model for just $599. [1:32:58]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we\'92re gonna price it starting at $499.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, when\'92s its gonna be available?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna be shipping these in June. Yeah, June.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re announcing it today because with products like this we gotta go and get FCC approval which takes a few months, and we thought it would be better if we introduced this rather than ask the FCC introduce\'85 to to introduce it for us. [1:33:23]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So here we are, and we\'92re gonna be shipping it in June in the U.S.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re going to Europe hopefully by the fourth calendar quarter of this year.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And Asia in 2008.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So June, in just a few months, we\'92ll be shipping in the U.S.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And when we do, our partner is gonna be Cingular.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve chosen Cingular. They are they are the best and most popular network in the country.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 58 million subscribers. They are number one. [1:33:55]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And they\'92re gonna be our exclusive partner in the U.S.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, it\'92s a unique partnership though.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re not just gonna be selling phones and services together.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re gonna be doing innovation together.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We worked with Cingular on visual voice mail.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Because it\'92s an innovation that requires both innovation on the phone and in the network.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You can\'92t do it in just one place.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You have to do it in both places and collaborate.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so visual voice mail is the first fruit of this collaboration, and you will see more.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And when we start shipping in June, we will be selling iPhone through our own stores, and through Cingular stores. [1:34:31]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it\'92s my pleasure to introduce the CEO of Cingular, Stan Sigman.\
Thank you. Welcome friend.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [1:34:57]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [Sigman]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 [1:40:30]\
[1:40:43] You know, as Stan said we started working together at about 2 years ago and we come from pretty different worlds.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The telecommunications industry, the computer industry and of course music with the iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And, uh and yet we have worked wonderfully together and we love these guys.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Ad we think its\'85 we\'92re gonna bring some great stuff to the market over the years together. [1:41:04]\
So, Let\'92s take a look at uh, at this market, and how big it is.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 My clicker\'92s not working.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Oh. There it is.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Maybe it is working. So how big is this market, well let\'92s take a look.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 No.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alrighty.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Clicker is not working[with loud voice].\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Alright. They\'92re scrambling backstage right now.\
You know, when I was in high school.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Steve Wozniak and I, m.. mostly Steve, uh made this little device called the TV jammer.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And it, was, it was this little oscillator that put out frequencies that would screw up the TV.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And Woz would have it in his pocket, and we\'92d go into like a dorm at Berkeley where he was going to school and a bunch of folks was watching like Star Trek and he\'92d screw up the TV, and somebody\'92d go up to fix it, and and just as they had their foot off the ground, he\'92d turn it back on.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And If they put their foot back on the ground he\'92d screw up the TV again.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And within five minutes he\'92d have somebody like this for the rest of the Star Trek episode. [1:42:29]\
Ok. So maybe it\'92s working now, maybe they\'92re gonna have to click \'92em for me. [1:42:32]\
So game consoles.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 26 million game consoles were sold in 2006 worldwide, actually a little smaller than you\'92d think. It\'92s not such a big market.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Digital cameras dwarfed it at 94 million.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 MP3 players 135 million. And PCs, about 209.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Mobile phones, just about a billion last year, worldwide.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So what does this tell you?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 What this tells you is, that 1 percent market share equals 10 million units.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is a giant market.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 If you just One percent market share, you\'92re gonna sell 10 million phones.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this is exactly what we\'92re gonna try to do in 2008, our first full year in the market, is grab 1 percent market share and go from there.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we\'92re gonna enter a very competitive market, lotta players, we think we\'92re gonna have the best product in the world, and we\'92re gonna go for it and see if we can get 1 percent market share, 10 million units in 2008, and go from there.[1:43:33]\
So, today, we\'92ve added to the Mac and the iPod.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve added Apple TV and now iPhone.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And you know, the Mac is the only one that you think really of as a computer. Right?\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so we\'92ve thought about this and we thought, you know, maybe our name should reflect this a little bit more than it does.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So we\'92re announcing today we\'92re dropping the computer from our name, and from this day forward, we\'92re gonna be known as Apple Incorporated, to reflect the product mix that we have today. [1:44:14]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I didn\'92t sleep a wink last night.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh I was so excited about today, because we\'92ve been so lucky at Apple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ve had some real revolutionary products.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The Mac in 1984 is an experience that those of us that were there will never forget.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And I don\'92t think the world will forget it either.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The iPod in 2001 changed everything about music, and we\'92re gonna do it again with the iPhone in 2007.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re very excited about this.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You know, there\'92s an old Wayne Gretzky quote that I love. [1:45:03]\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we\'92ve always tried to do that at Apple.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Since the very very beginning.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And we always will. So thank you very very much for being a part of this.[1:45:20]\
Now\
thanks\
[Music]\
Thank you very much. [1:46:50]\
Thank you. It\'92s uh\'85.\
I could ask you, uh I wanna highlight the folks here who worked on this products.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I could ask them to sit down, but you wouldn\'92t see them.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So if we all could sit down, I could ask them to stand stand up.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Could all the folks around here, who worked on these products stand up?\
Let\'92s get \'92em a round of applause.\
There\'92s a lot of them back in Cuptertino as well, so thank you guys so much.\
And I also can\'92t leave without thanking the families.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 All of our families.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 They haven\'92t seen a lot of us, \'91specially in the last 6 months.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh, as I\'92ve said said often, you know, without the support of our families, we couldn\'92t do what we do.\
We get to do this amazing work and uh they\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 they understand when we\'92re not home for dinner on time and.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 when commitments we\'92ve made we can\'92t keep, cause we gotta be be in the lab, working on something cause the intro is coming up.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh you don\'92t know how much we need you and appreciate you.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So thank you.\
So we\'92ve got a really special treat today.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 uhm We don\'92t have a lot of traditions at Apple,\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 outside of making great products.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But One of them is that John Mayer helped us at almost every MacWorld in the last several years.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And uh uh John Agreed to come and perform for us today\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 John\'92s a three time a grammy winner.\
And This year he\'92s been nominated for 5 Grammy Awards.\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Including album of the year for Continuum.\
Best rock album for Try.\
Best solo vocal performance for Route 66 from the movie Cars\
The other you can read up there.\
Its great. We are so lucky to have him.\
It is our pleasure to welcome John Mayer.\
[John Mayer plays]\
so thank you all very much for coming this morning\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 and uh, we\'92ll see you all soon\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 thanks\
}