{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 We meet today at a transformational moment -- a moment in history when our interconnected world presents us, at once, with great promise but also great peril.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, over the past four months my Administration has taken decisive steps to seize the promise and confront these perils. We're working to recover from a global recession while laying a new foundation for lasting prosperity.\'a0We're strengthening our armed forces as they fight two wars, at the same time we're renewing American leadership to confront unconventional challenges, from nuclear proliferation to terrorism, from climate change to pandemic disease.\'a0And we're bringing to government -- and to this White House -- unprecedented transparency and accountability and new ways for Americans to participate in their democracy.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But none of this progress would be possible, and none of these 21st century challenges can be fully met, without America's digital infrastructure -- the backbone that underpins a prosperous economy and a strong military and an open and efficient government.\'a0Without that foundation we can't get the job done.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It's long been said that the revolutions in communications and information technology have given birth to a virtual world.\'a0But make no mistake:\'a0This world -- cyberspace -- is a world that we depend on every single day.\'a0It's our hardware and our software, our desktops and laptops and cell phones and Blackberries that have become woven into every aspect of our lives.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It's the broadband networks beneath us and the wireless signals around us, the local networks in our schools and hospitals and businesses, and the massive grids that power our nation.\'a0It's the classified military and intelligence networks that keep us safe, and the World Wide Web that has made us more interconnected than at any time in human history.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So cyberspace is real.\'a0And so are the risks that come with it.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It's the great irony of our 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Information Age
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  -- the very technologies that empower us to create and to build also empower those who would disrupt and destroy.\'a0And this paradox -- seen and unseen -- is something that we experience every day.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It's about the privacy and the economic security of American families.\'a0We rely on the Internet to pay our bills, to bank, to shop, to file our taxes.\'a0But we've had to learn a whole new vocabulary just to stay ahead of the cyber criminals who would do us harm: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spyware"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 spyware}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malware"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 malware}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoofing_attack"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 spoofing}} and{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phishing"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 phishing}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Botnets"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 botnets}}.\'a0Millions of Americans have been victimized, their privacy violated, their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_theft"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 identities stolen}}, their lives upended, and their wallets emptied.\'a0According to one survey, in the past two years alone cyber crime has cost Americans more than 8 billion dollars.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I know how it feels to have privacy violated because it has happened to me and the people around me.\'a0It's no secret that my presidential campaign harnessed the Internet and technology to transform our politics.\'a0What isn't widely known is that during the general election hackers managed to penetrate our computer systems.\'a0To all of you who donated to our campaign, I want you to all rest assured, our fundraising website was untouched.\'a0So your confidential personal and financial information was protected.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But between August and October, hackers gained access to emails and a range of campaign files, from policy position papers to travel plans.\'a0And we worked closely with the CIA, with the FBI and the Secret Service, and hired security consultants to restore the security of our systems. It was a powerful reminder: In this 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Information Age
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 , one of your greatest strengths -- in our case, our ability to communicate to a wide range of supporters through the Internet -- could also be one of your greatest vulnerabilities.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This is a matter, as well, of America's economic competitiveness.\'a0The small businesswoman in St. Louis, the bond trader in the New York Stock Exchange, the workers at a global shipping company in Memphis, the young entrepreneur in Silicon Valley -- they all need the networks to make the next payroll, the next trade, the next delivery, the next great breakthrough. E-commerce alone last year accounted for some 132 billion dollars in retail sales.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But every day we see waves of cyber thieves trolling for sensitive information -- the disgruntled employee on the inside, the lone hacker a thousand miles away, organized crime, the industrial spy and, increasingly, foreign intelligence services. In {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://voices.washingtonpost.com/securityfix/2009/02/data_breach_led_to_multi-milli.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 one brazen act last year}}, thieves used stolen credit card information to steal millions of dollars from 130 ATM machines in 49 cities around the world -- and they did it in just 30 minutes.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 A single employee of an American company was convicted of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.scmagazineus.com/400-million-corporate-espionage-incident-at-dupont/article/34633/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 stealing intellectual property reportedly worth 400 million dollars}}.\'a0It's been estimated that last year alone cyber criminals stole intellectual property from businesses worldwide worth up to 1 trillion dollars.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In short, America's economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on cybersecurity.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this is also a matter of public safety and national security.\'a0We count on computer networks to deliver our oil and gas, our power and our water.\'a0We rely on them for public transportation and air traffic control.\'a0Yet we know that cyber intruders have probed our electrical grid and that in other countries cyber attacks have plunged entire cities into darkness.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our technological advantage is a key to America's military dominance. But our defense and military networks are under constant attack.\'a0Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups have spoken of their desire to unleash a cyber attack on our country -- attacks that are harder to detect and harder to defend against. Indeed, in today's world, acts of terror could come not only from a few extremists in suicide vests but from a few key strokes on the computer -- a weapon of mass disruption.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In one of the most serious cyber incidents to date against our military networks, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66552/william-j-lynn-iii/defending-a-new-domain"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 several thousand computers were infected last year}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2008/11/army-bans-usb-d/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 by malicious software -- malware}}.\'a0And while no sensitive information was compromised, our troops and defense personnel had to give up those external memory devices -- thumb drives -- changing the way they used their computers every day.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And last year we had a glimpse of the future face of war.\'a0As Russian tanks rolled into Georgia, cyber attacks crippled Georgian government websites. The terrorists that sowed so much death and destruction in Mumbai relied not only on guns and grenades but also on GPS and phones using voice-over-the-Internet.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 For all these reasons, it's now clear this cyber threat is one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face as a nation.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It's also clear that we're not as prepared as we should be, as a government or as a country.\'a0 In recent years, some progress has been made at the federal level.\'a0But just as we failed in the past to invest in our physical infrastructure -- our roads, our bridges and rails -- we've failed to invest in the security of our digital infrastructure.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 No single official oversees cybersecurity policy across the federal government, and no single agency has the responsibility or authority to match the scope and scale of the challenge.\'a0Indeed, when it comes to cybersecurity, federal agencies have overlapping missions and don't coordinate and communicate nearly as well as they should -- with each other or with the private sector.\'a0We saw this in the disorganized response to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conficker"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Conficker}}, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_worm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Internet worm}} that in recent months has infected millions of computers around the world.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This status quo is no longer acceptable -- not when there's so much at stake. We can and we must do better.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And that's why shortly after taking office I directed my National Security Council and Homeland Security Council to conduct a top-to-bottom review of the federal government's efforts to defend our information and communications infrastructure and to recommend the best way to ensure that these networks are able to secure our networks as well as our prosperity.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our review was open and transparent.\'a0I want to acknowledge, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melissa_Hathaway"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Melissa Hathaway}} -- who is here -- who is the Acting Senior Director for Cyberspace on our National Security Council, who led the review team, as well as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://csis.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Center for Strategic and International Studies}} bipartisan{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://csis.org/program/commission-cybersecurity-44th-presidency"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Commission on Cybersecurity}}, and all who were part of our 60-day review team.\'a0They listened to a wide variety of groups, many of which are represented here today and I want to thank for their input:\'a0industry and academia, civil liberties and private -- privacy advocates.\'a0We listened to every level and branch of government -- from local to state to federal, civilian, military, homeland as well as intelligence, Congress and international partners, as well.\'a0I consulted with my national security teams, my homeland security teams, and my economic advisors.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Today I'm releasing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/cyberspacepolicyreview2009final.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 a report on our review}}, and can announce that my Administration will pursue a new comprehensive approach to securing America's digital infrastructure.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This new approach starts at the top, with this commitment from me:\'a0From now on, our digital infrastructure -- the networks and computers we depend on every day -- will be treated as they should be:\'a0as a strategic national asset.\'a0Protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority. We will ensure that these networks are secure, trustworthy and resilient.\'a0We will deter, prevent, detect, and defend against attacks and recover quickly from any disruptions or damage.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 To give these efforts the high-level focus and attention they deserve -- and as part of the new, single National Security Staff announced this week -- I'm creating a new office here at the White House that will be led by the Cybersecurity Coordinator.\'a0 Because of the critical importance of this work, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2009/12/22/introducing-new-cybersecurity-coordinator"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 I will personally select this official}}.\'a0I'll depend on this official in all matters relating to cybersecurity, and this official will have my full support and regular access to me as we confront these challenges.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Today, I want to focus on the important responsibilities this office will fulfill:\'a0orchestrating and integrating all cybersecurity policies for the government; working closely with the Office of Management and Budget to ensure agency budgets reflect those priorities; and, in the event of major cyber incident or attack, coordinating our response.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 To ensure that federal cyber policies enhance our security and our prosperity, my Cybersecurity Coordinator will be a member of the National Security Staff as well as the staff of my National Economic Council.\'a0To ensure that policies keep faith with our fundamental values, this office will also include an official with a portfolio specifically dedicated to safeguarding the privacy and civil liberties of the American people.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 There's much work to be done, and the report we're releasing today outlines a range of actions that we will pursue in five key areas.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 First, working in partnership with the communities represented here today, we will develop a new comprehensive strategy to secure America's information and communications networks. To ensure a coordinated approach across government, my Cybersecurity Coordinator will work closely with my Chief Technology Officer, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aneesh_Chopra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Aneesh Chopra}}, and my Chief Information Officer, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivek_Kundra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Vivek Kundra}}. To ensure accountability in federal agencies, cybersecurity will be designated as one of my key management priorities.\'a0Clear milestones and performances metrics will measure progress.\'a0And as we develop our strategy, we will be open and transparent, which is why you'll find today's report and a wealth of related information on our Web site,\cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.whitehouse.gov/search/site/Cybersecurity"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \outl0\strokewidth0 www.whitehouse.gov}}.
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Second, we will work with all the key players -- including state and local governments and the private sector -- to ensure an organized and unified response to future cyber incidents.\'a0Given the enormous damage that can be caused by even a single cyber attack, ad hoc responses will not do.\'a0Nor is it sufficient to simply strengthen our defenses after incidents or attacks occur.\'a0Just as we do for natural disasters, we have to have plans and resources in place beforehand -- sharing information, issuing warnings and ensuring a coordinated response.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Third, we will strengthen the public/private partnerships that are critical to this endeavor.\'a0The vast majority of our critical information infrastructure in the United States is owned and operated by the private sector.\'a0So let me be very clear:\'a0My Administration will not dictate security standards for private companies. On the contrary, we will collaborate with industry to find technology solutions that ensure our security and promote prosperity.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Fourth, we will continue to invest in the cutting-edge research and development necessary for the innovation and discovery we need to meet the digital challenges of our time.\'a0And that's why my Administration is making major investments in our information infrastructure:\'a0laying broadband lines to every corner of America; building a smart electric grid to deliver energy more efficiently; pursuing a next generation of air traffic control systems; and moving to electronic health records, with privacy protections, to reduce costs and save lives.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And finally, we will begin a national campaign to promote cybersecurity awareness and digital literacy from our boardrooms to our classrooms, and to build a digital workforce for the 21st century.\'a0And that's why we're making a new commitment to education in math and science, and historic investments in science and research and development. Because it's not enough for our children and students to master today's technologies -- social networking and e-mailing and texting and blogging -- we need them to pioneer the technologies that will allow us to work effectively through these new media and allow us to prosper in the future.\'a0So these are the things we will do.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let me also be clear about what we will not do.\'a0Our pursuit of cybersecurity will not -- I repeat, will not include -- monitoring private sector networks or Internet traffic.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We will preserve and protect the personal privacy and civil liberties that we cherish as Americans.\'a0Indeed, I remain firmly committed to net neutrality so we can keep the Internet as it should be -- open and free.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The task I have described will not be easy.\'a0Some 1.5 billion people around the world are already online, and more are logging on every day.\'a0Groups and governments are sharpening their cyber capabilities.\'a0Protecting our prosperity and security in this globalized world is going to be a long, difficult struggle demanding patience and persistence over many years.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But we need to remember:\'a0We're only at the beginning. The epochs of history are long -- the Agricultural Revolution; the Industrial Revolution.\'a0By comparison, our Information Age is still in its infancy.\'a0We're only at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_2.0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Web 2.0.}}\'a0Now our virtual world is going viral.\'a0And we've only just begun to explore the next generation of technologies that will transform our lives in ways we can't even begin to imagine.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So a new world awaits -- a world of greater security and greater potential prosperity -- if we reach for it, if we lead.\'a0So long as I'm President of the United States, we will do just that. And the United States -- the nation that invented the Internet, that launched an information revolution, that transformed the world -- will do what we did in the 20th century and lead once more in the 21st.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}