{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good evening.\'a0Tonight, I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osama_bin_Laden"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Osama bin Laden}}, the leader of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Qaeda"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 al Qaeda}}, and a terrorist who\'92s responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women, and children.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It was nearly 10 years ago that a bright September day was darkened by the worst attack on the American people in our history.\'a0The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/rhetoricofterrorism.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 images of 9/11}} are seared into our national memory -- hijacked planes cutting through a cloudless September sky; the Twin Towers collapsing to the ground; black smoke billowing up from the Pentagon; the wreckage of{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Airlines_Flight_93"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Flight 93}} in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where the actions of heroic citizens saved even more heartbreak and destruction.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And yet we know that the worst images are those that were unseen to the world.\'a0The empty seat at the dinner table.\'a0Children who were forced to grow up without their mother or their father.\'a0Parents who would never know the feeling of their child\'92s embrace.\'a0Nearly 3,000 citizens taken from us, leaving a gaping hole in our hearts.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 On September 11, 2001, in our time of grief, the American people came together.\'a0We offered our neighbors a hand, and we offered the wounded our blood.\'a0 We reaffirmed our ties to each other, and our love of community and country.\'a0On that day, no matter where we came from, what God we prayed to, or what race or ethnicity we were, we were united as one American family.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We were also united in our resolve to protect our nation and to bring those who committed this vicious attack to justice.\'a0We quickly learned that the 9/11 attacks were carried out by al Qaeda -- an organization headed by Osama bin Laden, which had openly declared war on the United States and was committed to killing innocents in our country and around the globe.\'a0And so we went to war against al Qaeda to protect our citizens, our friends, and our allies.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Over the last 10 years, thanks to the tireless and heroic work of our military and our counterterrorism professionals, we\'92ve made great strides in that effort.\'a0We\'92ve disrupted terrorist attacks and strengthened our homeland defense.\'a0In Afghanistan, we removed the Taliban government, which had given bin Laden and al Qaeda safe haven and support.\'a0And around the globe, we worked with our friends and allies to capture or kill scores of al Qaeda terrorists, including several who were a part of the 9/11 plot.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yet Osama bin Laden avoided capture and escaped across the Afghan border into Pakistan.\'a0Meanwhile, al Qaeda continued to operate from along that border and operate through its affiliates across the world. And so shortly after taking office, I directed {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leon_Panetta"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Leon Panetta}}, the director of the CIA, to make the killing or capture of bin Laden the top priority of our war against al Qaeda, even as we continued our broader efforts to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat his network.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Then, last August, after years of painstaking work by our intelligence community, I was briefed on a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Location_of_Osama_bin_Laden#Location_and_death_of_Osama_bin_Laden"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 possible lead to bin Laden}}.\'a0It was far from certain, and it took many months to run this thread to ground.\'a0I met repeatedly with my {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/barackobama/barackobamasecurityteamannouncement.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 national security team}} as we developed more information about the possibility that we had located bin Laden hiding within a compound deep inside of Pakistan.\'a0And finally, last week, I determined that we had enough intelligence to take action, and authorized an operation to get Osama bin Laden and bring him to justice.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Today, at my direction, the United States launched a targeted operation against that compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.\'a0A {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Osama_bin_Laden#Execution_of_the_operation"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 small team of Americans}} carried out the operation with extraordinary courage and capability.\'a0No Americans were harmed.\'a0They took care to avoid civilian casualties.\'a0After a firefight, they killed Osama bin Laden and took custody of his body.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 For over two decades, bin Laden has been al Qaeda\'92s leader and symbol, and has continued to plot attacks against our country and our friends and allies.\'a0The death of bin Laden marks the most significant achievement to date in our nation\'92s effort to defeat al Qaeda.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yet his death does not mark the end of our effort.\'a0There\'92s no doubt that al Qaeda will continue to pursue attacks against us.\'a0We must \'96- and we will -- remain vigilant at home and abroad.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 As we do, we must also reaffirm that the United States is not \'96- and never will be -\'96 at war with Islam.\'a0I\'92ve made clear, just as {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/gwbush911islamispeace.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 President Bush did shortly after 9/11}}, that our war is not against Islam.\'a0Bin Laden was not a Muslim leader; he was a mass murderer of Muslims.\'a0Indeed, al Qaeda has slaughtered scores of Muslims in many countries, including our own.\'a0 So his demise should be welcomed by all who believe in peace and human dignity.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Over the years, I\'92ve repeatedly made clear that we would take action within Pakistan if we knew where bin Laden was.\'a0That is what we\'92ve done.\'a0But it\'92s important to note that our counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound where he was hiding.\'a0Indeed, bin Laden had declared war against Pakistan as well, and ordered attacks against the Pakistani people.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Tonight, I called {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_Zardari"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 President Zardari}}, and my team has also spoken with their Pakistani counterparts.\'a0They agree that this is a good and historic day for both of our nations.\'a0And going forward, it is essential that Pakistan continue to join us in the fight against al Qaeda and its affiliates.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The American people did not choose this fight.\'a0It came to our shores, and started with the senseless slaughter of our citizens.\'a0After nearly 10 years of service, struggle, and sacrifice, we know well the costs of war.\'a0These efforts weigh on me every time I, as Commander-in-Chief, have to sign a letter to a family that has lost a loved one, or look into the eyes of a service member who\'92s been gravely wounded.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So Americans understand the costs of war.\'a0Yet as a country, we will never tolerate our security being threatened, nor stand idly by when our people have been killed.\'a0We will be relentless in defense of our citizens and our friends and allies.\'a0We will be true to the values that make us who we are. And on nights like this one, we can say to those families who have lost loved ones to al Qaeda\'92s terror:\'a0Justice has been done.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Tonight, we give thanks to the countless intelligence and counterterrorism professionals who\'92ve worked tirelessly to achieve this outcome.\'a0The American people do not see their work, nor know their names.\'a0But tonight, they feel the satisfaction of their work and the result of their pursuit of justice.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We give thanks for the men who carried out this operation, for they exemplify the professionalism, patriotism, and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country.\'a0And they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of the burden since {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/rhetoricofterrorism.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 that September day}}.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Finally, let me say to the families who lost loved ones on 9/11 that we have never forgotten your loss, nor wavered in our commitment to see that we do whatever it takes to prevent another attack on our shores.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And tonight, let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11.\'a0I know that it has, at times, frayed.\'a0Yet today\'92s achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the American people.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The cause of securing our country is not complete.\'a0But tonight, we are once again reminded that America can do whatever we set our mind to.\'a0 That is the story of our history, whether it\'92s the pursuit of prosperity for our people, or the struggle for equality for all our citizens; our commitment to stand up for our values abroad, and our sacrifices to make the world a safer place.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Let us remember that we can do these things not just because of wealth or power, but because of who we are:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/pledgeofallegiance.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all}}.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 May God bless you.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And may God bless the United States of America.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}