{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good evening.\'a0Nearly 10 years ago, America suffered the worst attack on our shores since Pearl Harbor.\'a0This mass murder was planned by Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda network in Afghanistan, and signaled a new threat to our security \'96- one in which the targets were no longer soldiers on a battlefield, but innocent men, women and children going about their daily lives.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In the days that followed, our nation was united as we struck at al Qaeda and routed the Taliban in Afghanistan.\'a0Then, our focus shifted.\'a0A second war was launched in Iraq, and we spent enormous blood and treasure to support a new government there. By the time I took office, the war in Afghanistan had entered its seventh year.\'a0But al Qaeda\'92s leaders had escaped into Pakistan and were plotting new attacks, while the Taliban had regrouped and gone on the offensive.\'a0Without a new strategy and decisive action, our military commanders warned that we could face a resurgent al Qaeda and a Taliban taking over large parts of Afghanistan.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 For this reason, in one of the most difficult decisions that I\'92ve made as President, I ordered an additional 30,000 American troops into Afghanistan.\'a0When {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/barackobama/barackobamawestpointafghanistan.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 I announced this surge at West Point}}, we set clear objectives:\'a0to refocus on al Qaeda, to reverse the Taliban\'92s momentum, and train Afghan security forces to defend their own country.\'a0I also made it clear that our commitment would not be open-ended, and that we would begin to draw down our forces this July.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Tonight, I can tell you that we are fulfilling that commitment.\'a0Thanks to our extraordinary men and women in uniform, our civilian personnel, and our many coalition partners, we are meeting our goals.\'a0As a result, starting next month, we will be able to remove 10,000 of our troops from Afghanistan by the end of this year, and we will bring home a total of 33,000 troops by next summer, fully recovering the surge I announced at West Point.\'a0After this initial reduction, our troops will continue coming home at a steady pace as Afghan security forces move into the lead.\'a0 Our mission will change from combat to support.\'a0 By 2014, this process of transition will be complete, and the Afghan people will be responsible for their own security.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92re starting this drawdown from a position of strength.\'a0Al Qaeda is under more pressure than at any time since 9/11.\'a0Together with the Pakistanis, we have taken out more than half of al Qaeda\'92s leadership.\'a0 And thanks to our intelligence professionals and Special Forces, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/barackobama/barackobamaosamabinladendeath.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 we killed Osama bin Laden}}, the only leader that al Qaeda had ever known.\'a0This was a victory for all who have served since 9/11.\'a0One soldier summed it up well.\'a0\'93The message,\'94 he said, \'93is we don\'92t forget.\'a0You will be held accountable, no matter how long it takes.\'94\'a0
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The information that we recovered from bin Laden\'92s compound shows al Qaeda under enormous strain.\'a0Bin Laden expressed concern that al Qaeda had been unable to effectively replace senior terrorists that had been killed, and that al Qaeda has failed in its effort to portray America as a nation at war with Islam -\'96 thereby draining more widespread support.\'a0Al Qaeda remains dangerous, and we must be vigilant against attacks.\'a0But we have put al Qaeda on a path to defeat, and we will not relent until the job is done.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In Afghanistan, we\'92ve inflicted serious losses on the Taliban and taken a number of its strongholds.\'a0Along with our surge, our allies also increased their commitments, which helped stabilize more of the country.\'a0Afghan security forces have grown by over 100,000 troops, and in some provinces and municipalities we\'92ve already begun to transition responsibility for security to the Afghan people.\'a0In the face of violence and intimidation, Afghans are fighting and dying for their country, establishing local police forces, opening markets and schools, creating new opportunities for women and girls, and trying to turn the page on decades of war.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Of course, huge challenges remain.\'a0This is the beginning -- but not the end \'96- of our effort to wind down this war.\'a0We\'92ll have to do the hard work of keeping the gains that we\'92ve made, while we draw down our forces and transition responsibility for security to the Afghan government.\'a0And next May, in Chicago, we will host a summit with our NATO allies and partners to shape the next phase of this transition.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We do know that peace cannot come to a land that has known so much war without a political settlement.\'a0So as we strengthen the Afghan government and security forces, America will join initiatives that reconcile the Afghan people, including the Taliban.\'a0Our position on these talks is clear:\'a0They must be led by the Afghan government, and those who want to be a part of a peaceful Afghanistan must break from al Qaeda, abandon violence, and abide by the Afghan constitution. But, in part because of our military effort, we have reason to believe that progress can be made.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The goal that we seek is achievable, and can be expressed simply:\'a0no safe haven from which al Qaeda or its affiliates can launch attacks against our homeland or our allies.\'a0We won't try to make Afghanistan a perfect place.\'a0We will not police its streets or patrol its mountains indefinitely.\'a0That is the responsibility of the Afghan government, which must step up its ability to protect its people, and move from an economy shaped by war to one that can sustain a lasting peace.\'a0What we can do, and will do, is build a partnership with the Afghan people that endures \'96- one that ensures that we will be able to continue targeting terrorists and supporting a sovereign Afghan government.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Of course, our efforts must also address terrorist safe havens in Pakistan.\'a0No country is more endangered by the presence of violent extremists, which is why we will continue to press Pakistan to expand its participation in securing a more peaceful future for this war-torn region.\'a0We'll work with the Pakistani government to root out the cancer of violent extremism, and we will insist that it keeps its commitments.\'a0For there should be no doubt that so long as I am President, the United States will never tolerate a safe haven for those who aim to kill us.\'a0They cannot elude us, nor escape the justice they deserve.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 My fellow Americans, this has been a difficult decade for our country.\'a0We've learned anew the profound cost of war -- a cost that's been paid by the nearly 4,500 Americans who have given their lives in Iraq, and the over 1,500 who have done so in Afghanistan -\'96 men and women who will not live to enjoy the freedom that they defended.\'a0Thousands more have been wounded. Some have lost limbs on the battlefield, and others still battle the demons that have followed them home.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Yet tonight, we take comfort in knowing that the tide of war is receding.\'a0 Fewer of our sons and daughters are serving in harm\'92s way.\'a0We\'92ve ended our combat mission in Iraq, with 100,000 American troops already out of that country.\'a0And even as there will be dark days ahead in Afghanistan, the light of a secure peace can be seen in the distance.\'a0These long wars will come to a responsible end.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 As they do, we must learn their lessons.\'a0Already this decade of war has caused many to question the nature of America\'92s engagement around the world.\'a0Some would have America retreat from our responsibility as an anchor of global security, and embrace an isolation that ignores the very real threats that we face.\'a0Others would have America over-extended, confronting every evil that can be found abroad.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We must chart a more centered course.\'a0Like generations before, we must embrace America\'92s singular role in the course of human events. But we must be as pragmatic as we are passionate; as strategic as we are resolute.\'a0When threatened, we must respond with force \'96- but when that force can be targeted, we need not deploy large armies overseas.\'a0When innocents are being slaughtered and global security endangered, we don\'92t have to choose between standing idly by or acting on our own.\'a0Instead, we must rally international action, which we\'92re doing in Libya, where we do not have a single soldier on the ground, but are supporting allies in protecting the Libyan people and giving them the chance to determine their own destiny.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In all that we do, we must remember that what sets America apart is not solely our power -\'96 it is the principles upon which our union was founded.\'a0We\'92re a nation that brings our enemies to justice while adhering to the rule of law, and respecting the rights of all our citizens.\'a0We protect our own freedom and prosperity by extending it to others.\'a0 We stand not for empire, but for self-determination.\'a0That is why we have a stake in the democratic aspirations that are now washing across the Arab world.\'a0We will support those revolutions with fidelity to our ideals, with the power of our example, and with an unwavering belief that all human beings deserve to live with freedom and dignity.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Above all, we are a nation whose strength abroad has been anchored in opportunity for our citizens here at home.\'a0Over the last decade, we have spent a trillion dollars on war, at a time of rising debt and hard economic times.\'a0Now, we must invest in America\'92s greatest resource \'96- our people.\'a0We must unleash innovation that creates new jobs and industries, while living within our means.\'a0We must rebuild our infrastructure and find new and clean sources of energy.\'a0And most of all, after a decade of passionate debate, we must recapture the common purpose that we shared at the beginning of this time of war.\'a0For our nation draws strength from our differences, and when our union is strong no hill is too steep, no horizon is beyond our reach.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 America, it is time to focus on nation building here at home.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In this effort, we draw inspiration from our fellow Americans who have sacrificed so much on our behalf.\'a0To our troops, our veterans and their families, I speak for all Americans when I say that we will keep our sacred trust with you, and provide you with the care and benefits and opportunity that you deserve.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I met some of these patriotic Americans at Fort Campbell.\'a0Awhile back, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/barackobama/barackobamabagramairfield.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 I spoke to the 101st Airborne}} that has fought to turn the tide in Afghanistan, and to the team that took out Osama bin Laden.\'a0Standing in front of a model of bin Laden\'92s compound, the Navy SEAL who led that effort paid tribute to those who had been lost \'96- brothers and sisters in arms whose names are now written on bases where our troops stand guard overseas, and on headstones in quiet corners of our country where their memory will never be forgotten.\'a0This officer -- like so many others I\'92ve met on bases, in Baghdad and Bagram, and at Walter Reed and Bethesda Naval Hospital -\'96 spoke with humility about how his unit worked together as one, depending on each other, and trusting one another, as a family might do in a time of peril.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That\'92s a lesson worth remembering -\'96 that we are all a part of one American family.\'a0Though we have known disagreement and division, we are bound together by the creed that is written into our founding documents, and a conviction that the United States of America is a country that can achieve whatever it sets out to accomplish.\'a0Now, let us finish the work at hand.\'a0Let us responsibly end these wars, and reclaim the American Dream that is at the center of our story.\'a0With confidence in our cause, with faith in our fellow citizens, and with hope in our hearts, let us go about the work of extending the promise of America -\'96 for this generation, and the next.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 May God bless our troops.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And may God bless the United States of America.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}