{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good afternoon, everybody.\'a0 Earlier today, I was briefed by my homeland security team on the events in Boston. We\'92re continuing to monitor and respond to the situation as it unfolds.\'a0 And I\'92ve directed the full resources of the federal government
\b\fs18 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\super \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 1
\b0\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\nosupersub \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  to help state and local authorities protect our people, increase security around the United States as necessary, and investigate what happened.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 The American people will say a prayer for Boston tonight.\'a0 And Michelle and I send our deepest thoughts and prayers to the families of the victims in the wake of this senseless loss.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We don\'92t yet have all the answers.\'a0 But we do know that multiple people have been wounded, some gravely, in explosions at the Boston Marathon.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve spoken to FBI Director Mueller and Secretary of Homeland Security Napolitano, and they\'92re mobilizing the appropriate resources to investigate and to respond.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve updated leaders of Congress in both parties, and we reaffirmed that on days like this there are no Republicans or Democrats -- we are Americans, united in concern for our fellow citizens.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I\'92ve also spoken with Governor Patrick and Mayor Menino, and made it clear that they have every single federal resource necessary to care for the victims and counsel the families.\'a0 And above all, I made clear to them that all Americans stand with the people of Boston.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Boston police, firefighters, and first responders as well as the National Guard responded heroically, and continue to do so as we speak.\'a0 It\'92s a reminder that so many Americans serve and sacrifice on our behalf every single day, without regard to their own safety, in dangerous and difficult circumstances.\'a0 And we salute all those who assisted in responding so quickly and professionally to this tragedy.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We still do not know who did this or why.\'a0 And people shouldn\'92t jump to conclusions before we have all the facts.\'a0 But make no mistake -- we will get to the bottom of this.\'a0 And we will find out who did this; we'll find out why they did this.\'a0 Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups will feel the full weight of justice.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Today is a holiday in Massachusetts -- Patriots\'92 Day.\'a0 It\'92s a day that celebrates the free and fiercely independent spirit that this great American city of Boston has reflected from the\'a0 earliest days of our nation.\'a0 And it\'92s a day that draws the world to Boston\'92s streets in a spirit of friendly competition.\'a0 Boston is a tough and resilient town.\'a0 So are its people.\'a0 I'm supremely confident that Bostonians will pull together, take care of each other, and move forward as one proud city.\'a0 And as they do, the American people will be with them every single step of the way.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 You should anticipate that as we get more information, our teams will provide you briefings.\'a0 We're still in the investigation stage at this point.\'a0 But I just want to reiterate we will find out who did this and we will hold them accountable.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you very much.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}