{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good evening, everybody. \'a0Tonight our nation is in debt to the people of Boston and the people of Massachusetts. \'a0After a vicious attack on their city, Bostonians responded with resolve and determination. \'a0They did their part as citizens and partners in this investigation.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Boston police and state police and local police across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts responded with professionalism and bravery over five long days. \'a0And tonight, because of their determined efforts, we've closed an important chapter in this tragedy.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I've been briefed earlier this evening by FBI Director Mueller. \'a0After the attacks on Monday, I directed the full resources of the federal government to be made available to help state and local authorities in the investigation and to increase security as needed. \'a0Over the past week, close coordination among federal, state, and local officials -- sharing information, moving swiftly to track down leads -- has been critical to this effort.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 They all worked as they should, as a team. \'a0And we are extremely grateful for that. \'a0We owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to all our outstanding law enforcement professionals. \'a0These men and women get up every day, they put on that uniform; they risk their lives to keep us safe -- and as this week showed, they don't always know what to expect. \'a0So our thoughts are with those who were wounded in pursuit of the suspects and we pray for their full recovery.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We also send our prayers to the Collier family who grieve the loss of their son and brother, Sean. \'a0"He was born to be a police officer," said his chief at MIT. \'a0He was just 26 years old. \'a0And as his family has said, he died bravely in the line of duty, doing what he committed his life to doing -- serving and protecting others. \'a0So we're grateful to him.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Obviously, tonight there are still many unanswered questions. \'a0Among them, why did young men who grew up and studied here, as part of our communities and our country, resort to such violence? \'a0How did they plan and carry out these attacks, and did they receive any help? \'a0The families of those killed so senselessly deserve answers. \'a0The wounded, some of whom now have to learn how to stand and walk and live again, deserve answers.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And so I've instructed the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security and our intelligence community to continue to deploy all the necessary resources to support the investigation, to collect intelligence, and to protect our citizens. \'a0We will determine what happened. \'a0We will investigate any associations that these terrorists may have had. \'a0And we'll continue to do whatever we have to do to keep our people safe.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 One thing we do know is that whatever hateful agenda drove these men to such heinous acts will not -- cannot -- prevail. \'a0Whatever they thought they could ultimately achieve, they've already failed. \'a0They failed because the people of Boston refused to be intimidated. \'a0They failed because, as Americans, we refused to be terrorized. \'a0They failed because we will not waver from the character and the compassion and the values that define us as a country. \'a0Nor will we break the bonds that hold us together as Americans.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That American spirit includes staying true to the unity and diversity that makes us strong -- like no other nation in the world. \'a0In this age of instant reporting and tweets and blogs, there's a temptation to latch on to any bit of information, sometimes to jump to conclusions. \'a0But when a tragedy like this happens, with public safety at risk and the stakes so high, it's important that we do this right. \'a0That's why we have investigations. \'a0That's why we relentlessly gather the facts. \'a0That's why we have courts. \'a0And that's why we take care not to rush to judgment -- not about the motivations of these individuals; certainly not about entire groups of people.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 After all, one of the things that makes America the greatest nation on Earth, but also, one of the things that makes Boston such a great city, is that we welcome people from all around the world -- people of every faith, every ethnicity, from every corner of the globe. \'a0So as we continue to learn more about why and how this tragedy happened, let's make sure that we sustain that spirit.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Tonight we think of all the wounded, still struggling to recover. \'a0Certainly we think of Krystle Campbell. \'a0We think of Lingzi Lu. \'a0And we think of little Martin Richard. \'a0Their lives reflected all the diversity and beauty of our country, and they were sharing the great American experience together.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Finally, let me say that even as so much attention has been focused on the tragic events in Boston, understandably, we've also seen a tight-knit community in Texas devastated by a terrible explosion. \'a0And I want them to know that they are not forgotten. \'a0Our thoughts, our prayers are with the people of West, Texas, where so many good people lost their lives; some lost their homes; many are injured; many are still missing.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I've talked to Governor Perry and Mayor Muska and I've pledged that the people of West will have the resources that they need to recover and rebuild. \'a0And I want everybody in Texas to know that we will follow through with those commitments.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 All in all, this has been a tough week. \'a0But we've seen the character of our country once more. \'a0And as President, I'm confident that we have the courage and the resilience and the spirit to overcome these challenges -- and to go forward, as one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you very much, everybody.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}