{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good morning, everybody. \'a0I've just been briefed by my national security team, including FBI Director Mueller, Attorney General Holder, Secretary Napolitano, and my Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Advisor Lisa Monaco, on the attacks in Boston. \'a0We continue to mobilize and deploy all appropriate law enforcement resources to protect our citizens, and to investigate and to respond to this attack.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Obviously our first thoughts this morning are with the victims, their families, and the city of Boston. \'a0We know that two explosions gravely wounded dozens of Americans, and took the lives of others, including a 8-year-old boy.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This was a heinous and cowardly act. \'a0And given what we now know about what took place, the FBI is investigating it as an act of terrorism. \'a0Any time bombs are used to target innocent civilians it is an act of terror. \'a0What we don\'92t yet know, however, is who carried out this attack, or why; whether it was planned and executed by a terrorist organization, foreign or domestic, or was the act of a malevolent individual. \'a0That's what we don't yet know. \'a0And clearly, we\'92re at the beginning of our investigation.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It will take time to follow every lead and determine what happened. \'a0But we will find out. \'a0We will find whoever harmed our citizens and we will bring them to justice.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We also know this -- the American people refuse to be terrorized. \'a0Because what the world saw yesterday in the aftermath of the explosions were stories of heroism and kindness, and generosity and love: Exhausted runners who kept running to the nearest hospital to give blood, and those who stayed to tend to the wounded, some tearing off their own clothes to make tourniquets. \'a0The first responders who ran into the chaos to save lives. \'a0The men and women who are still treating the wounded at some of the best hospitals in the world, and the medical students who hurried to help, saying \'93When we heard, we all came in.\'94 The priests who opened their churches and ministered to the hurt and the fearful. \'a0And the good people of Boston who opened their homes to the victims of this attack and those shaken by it.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So if you want to know who we are, what America is, how we respond to evil -- that\'92s it. \'a0Selflessly. \'a0Compassionately. \'a0Unafraid.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In the coming days, we will pursue every effort to get to the bottom of what happened. \'a0And we will continue to remain vigilant. \'a0I\'92ve directed my administration to take appropriate security measures to protect the American people. \'a0And this is a good time for all of us to remember that we all have a part to play in alerting authorities -- if you see something suspicious, speak up.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I have extraordinary confidence in the men and women of the FBI, the Boston Police Department, and the other agencies that responded so heroically and effectively in the aftermath of yesterday\'92s events. \'a0I\'92m very grateful for the leadership of Governor Patrick and Mayor Menino. And I know that even as we protect our people and aggressively pursue this investigation, the people of Boston will continue to respond in the same proud and heroic way that they have thus far -- and their fellow Americans will be right there with them.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you very much. \'a0And you can expect further briefings from our law enforcement officials as the day goes on. \'a0When we have more details, they will be disclosed. \'a0What I\'92ve indicated to you is what we know now. We know it was bombs that were set off. \'a0We know that obviously they did some severe damage. \'a0We do not know who did them. \'a0We do not know whether this was an act of an organization or an individual or individuals. \'a0We don\'92t have a sense of motive yet. \'a0So everything else at this point is speculation. \'a0But as we receive more information, as the FBI has more information, as our out counterterrorism teams have more information, we will make sure to keep you and the American people posted.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you very much, everybody.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}