{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red192\green0\blue9;
\red0\green0\blue56;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Good afternoon, everybody. \'a0I hope everyone had a wonderful holiday weekend -- especially our men and women in uniform. \'a0This Fourth of July we were honored to once again welcome some of our incredible troops and their families to share Fourth of July and fireworks at the White House. \'a0It was another chance for us, on behalf of the American people, to express our gratitude for their extraordinary service around the world every day.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And that includes the work that brings me here today -- our mission to degrade and ultimately destroy the terrorist group ISIL. \'a0This is a cause, a coalition, that\'92s united countries across the globe -- some 60 nations, including Arab partners. \'a0Our comprehensive strategy against ISIL is harnessing all elements of American power, across our government -- military, intelligence, diplomatic, economic, development and perhaps most importantly, the power of our values.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Last month, I ordered additional actions in support of our strategy. \'a0I just met with my national security team as part of our regular effort to assess our efforts -- what\'92s working and what we can do better. \'a0Secretary Carter, Chairman Dempsey, I want to thank you and your team for welcoming us and for your leadership, including General Austin who\'92s leading the military campaign. \'a0And I want to summarize briefly where we stand.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I want to start by repeating what I\'92ve said since the beginning. \'a0This will not be quick. \'a0This is a long-term campaign. \'a0ISIL is opportunistic and it is nimble. \'a0In many places in Syria and Iraq, including urban areas, it\'92s dug in among innocent civilian populations. \'a0It will take time to root them out -- and doing so must be the job of local forces on the ground, with training and air support from our coalition.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 As with any military effort, there will be periods of progress, but there are also going to be some setbacks -- as we\'92ve seen with ISIL\'92s gains in Ramadi in Iraq and central and southern Syria. \'a0But today, it\'92s also important for us to recognize the progress that's been made.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our coalition has now hit ISIL with more than 5,000 airstrikes. \'a0We\'92ve taken out thousands of fighting positions, tanks, vehicles, bomb factories, and training camps. \'a0We\'92ve eliminated thousands of fighters, including senior ISIL commanders. \'a0And over the past year, we\'92ve seen that when we have an effective partner on the ground, ISIL can be pushed back.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In Iraq, ISIL lost at the Mosul Dam. \'a0ISIL lost at Mount Sinjar. \'a0ISIL has lost repeatedly across Kirkuk Province. \'a0ISIL lost at Tikrit. \'a0Altogether, ISIL has lost more than a quarter of the populated areas that it had seized in Iraq. \'a0In Syria, ISIL lost at Kobani. \'a0It\'92s recently endured losses across northern Syria, including the key city of Tal Abyad, denying ISIL a vital supply route to Raqqa, its base of operations in Syria.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So these are reminders that ISIL\'92s strategic weaknesses are real. \'a0ISIL is surrounded by countries and communities committed to its destruction. \'a0It has no air force; our coalition owns the skies. \'a0ISIL is backed by no nation. \'a0It relies on fear, sometimes executing its own disillusioned fighters. \'a0Its unrestrained brutality often alienates those under its rule, creating new enemies. \'a0In short, ISIL\'92s recent losses in both Syria and Iraq prove that ISIL can and will be defeated.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Indeed, we\'92re intensifying our efforts against ISIL\'92s base in Syria. \'a0Our airstrikes will continue to target the oil and gas facilities that fund so much of their operations. \'a0We\'92re going after the ISIL leadership and infrastructure in Syria -- the heart of ISIL that pumps funds and propaganda to people around the world. \'a0Partnering with other countries -- sharing more information, strengthening laws and border security -- allows us to work to stem the flow of foreign fighters to Syria as well as Iraq, and to stem, obviously, the flow of those fighters back into our own countries. \'a0This continues to be a challenge, and, working together, all our nations are going to need to do more, but we're starting to see some progress.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We\'92ll continue cracking down on ISIL\'92s illicit finance around the world. \'a0By the way, if Congress really wants to help in this effort, they can confirm Mr. Adam Szubin, our nominee for Treasury Under Secretary to lead this effort. \'a0This is a vital position to our counterterrorism efforts. \'a0Nobody suggests Mr. Szubin is not qualified. \'a0He\'92s highly qualified. \'a0Unfortunately, his nomination has been languishing up on the Hill, and we need the Senate to confirm him as soon as possible.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Meanwhile, we continue to ramp up our training and support of local forces that are fighting ISIL on the ground. \'a0As I\'92ve said before, this aspect of our strategy was moving too slowly. \'a0But the fall of Ramadi has galvanized the Iraqi government. \'a0So, with the additional steps I ordered last month, we\'92re speeding up training of ISIL [Iraqi] forces, including volunteers from Sunni tribes in Anbar Province.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 More Sunni volunteers are coming forward. \'a0Some are already being trained, and they can be a new force against ISIL. \'a0We continue to accelerate the delivery of critical equipment, including anti-tank weapons, to Iraqi security forces, including the Peshmerga and tribal fighters. \'a0And I made it clear to my team that we will do more to train and equip the moderate opposition in Syria.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Now, all this said, our strategy recognizes that no amount of military force will end the terror that is ISIL unless it\'92s matched by a broader effort -- political and economic -- that addresses the underlying conditions that have allowed ISIL to gain traction. \'a0They have filled a void, and we have to make sure that as we push them out that void is filled. \'a0So, as Iraqi cities and towns are liberated from ISIL, we\'92re working with Iraq and the United Nations to help communities rebuild the security, services and governance that they need. \'a0We continue to support the efforts of Prime Minister Abadi to forge an inclusive and effective Iraqi government that unites all the people of Iraq -- Shia, Sunnis, Kurds and all minority communities.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In Syria, the only way that the civil war will end -- and in a way so that the Syrian people can unite against ISIL -- is an inclusive political transition to a new government, without Bashar Assad -- a government that serves all Syrians. \'a0I discussed this with our Gulf Cooperation Council partners at Camp David and during my recent call with President Putin. \'a0I made it clear the United States will continue to work for such a transition.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And a glimmer of good news is I think an increasing recognition on the part of all the players in the region that given the extraordinary threat that ISIL poses it is important for us to work together, as opposed to at cross-purposes, to make sure that an inclusive Syrian government exists.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 While the focus of our discussions today was on Iraq and Syria, ISIL and its ideology also obviously pose a grave threat beyond the region. \'a0In recent weeks we\'92ve seen deadly attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and Egypt\'92s Sinai Peninsula. \'a0We see a growing ISIL presence in Libya and attempts to establish footholds across North Africa, the Middle East, the Caucasus, and Southeast Asia. We\'92ve seen attacks in Ottawa, Sydney, France and Copenhagen.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I\'92ve called on the international community to unite against this scourge of violent extremism. \'a0In this fight, the United States continues to lead. \'a0When necessary to prevent attacks against our nation, we\'92ll take direct action against terrorists. \'a0We\'92ll continue to also partner with nations from Afghanistan to Nigeria to build up their security forces. \'a0We\'92re going to work day and night with allies and partners to disrupt terrorist networks and thwart attacks, and to smother nascent ISIL cells that may be trying to develop in other parts of the world.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 This also includes remaining vigilant in protecting against attacks here in the homeland. \'a0Now, I think it's important for us to recognize the threat of violent extremism is not restricted to any one community. \'a0Here in the United States, we\'92ve seen all kinds of homegrown terrorism. \'a0And tragically, recent history reminds us how even a single individual motivated by a hateful ideology with access to dangerous weapons can inflict horrendous harm on Americans. \'a0So our efforts to counter violent extremism must not target any one community because of their faith or background, including patriotic Muslim Americans who are our partners in keeping our country safe.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 That said, we also have to acknowledge that ISIL has been particularly effective at reaching out to and recruiting vulnerable people around the world, including here in the United States. \'a0And they are targeting Muslim communities around the world. \'a0Numerous individuals have been arrested across the country for plotting attacks or attempting to join ISIL in Syria and Iraq. \'a0Two men apparently inspired by ISIL opened fire in Garland, Texas. \'a0And because of our success over the years in improving our homeland security, we\'92ve made it harder for terrorists to carry out large-scale attacks like 9/11 here at home.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But the threat of lone wolves or small cells of terrorists is complex -- it's harder to detect and harder to prevent. \'a0It\'92s one of the most difficult challenges that we face. \'a0And preventing these kinds of attacks on American soil is going to require sustained effort.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So I just want to repeat, the good news is that because of extraordinary efforts from law enforcement as well as our military intelligence, we are doing a better job at preventing any large-scale attacks on the homeland. \'a0On the other hand, the small, individual lone wolf attacks or small cells become harder to detect and they become more sophisticated, using new technologies. \'a0And that means that we're going to have to pick up our game to prevent these attacks.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It's also true why, ultimately, in order for us to defeat terrorist groups like ISIL and al Qaeda it's going to also require us to discredit their ideology -- the twisted thinking that draws vulnerable people into their ranks. \'a0As I\'92ve said before -- and I know our military leaders agree -- this broader challenge of countering violent extremism is not simply a military effort. \'a0Ideologies are not defeated with guns; they\'92re defeated by better ideas -- a more attractive and more compelling vision.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So the United States will continue to do our part, by working with partners to counter ISIL\'92s hateful propaganda, especially online. \'a0We\'92ll constantly reaffirm through words and deeds that we will never be at war with Islam. \'a0We\'92re fighting terrorists who distort Islam and whose victims are mostly Muslims. \'a0But around the world, we\'92re also going to insist on partnering with Muslim communities as they seek security, prosperity and the dignity that they deserve. \'a0And we're going to expect those communities to step up in terms of pushing back as hard as they can, in conjunction with other people of goodwill, against these hateful ideologies in order to discredit them more effectively, particularly when it comes to what we're teaching young people.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 And this larger battle for hearts and minds is going to be a generational struggle. \'a0It's ultimately not going to be won or lost by the United States alone. \'a0It will be decided by the countries and the communities that terrorists like ISIL target. \'a0It\'92s going to be up to Muslim communities, including scholars and clerics, to keep rejecting warped interpretations of Islam, and to protect their sons and daughters from recruitment. \'a0It will be up to all people -- leaders and citizens -- to reject the sectarianism that so often fuels the resentments and conflicts upon which terrorists are currently thriving. \'a0It will be up to governments to address the political and economic grievances that terrorists exploit.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Nations that empower citizens to decide their own destiny, that uphold human rights for all their people, that invest in education and create opportunities for their young people -- those can be powerful antidotes to extremist ideologies. \'a0Those are the countries that will find a true partner in the United States.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 In closing, let me note that this Fourth of July we celebrated 239 years of American independence. \'a0Across more than two centuries, we\'92ve faced much bigger, much more formidable challenges than this -- Civil War, a Great Depression, fascism, communism, terrible natural disasters, 9/11. \'a0And every time, every generation, our nation has risen to the moment. \'a0We don\'92t simply endure; we emerge stronger than before. \'a0And that will be the case here.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Our mission to destroy ISIL and to keep our country safe will be difficult. \'a0It will take time. \'a0There will be setbacks as well as progress. \'a0But as President and Commander-in-Chief, I want to say to all our men and women in uniform who are serving in this operation -- our pilots, the crews on the ground, our personnel not only on the ground but at sea, our intelligence teams and our diplomatic teams -- I want to thank you. \'a0We are proud of you, and you have my total confidence that you\'92re going to succeed.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 To the American people, I want to say we will continue to be vigilant. \'a0We will persevere. \'a0And just as we have for more than two centuries, we will ultimately prevail.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thank you very much, everybody. \'a0And thanks to the team up on the stage here with me -- they\'92re doing an outstanding job.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs20 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Question:
\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0Take a question?
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs20 \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 President Obama:
\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0You know what, I will take a question. \'a0Go ahead.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs20 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Question:
\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0Every servicemember who is listening to you today, Mr. President, is wondering, are you going to veto the defense bills that are going to pay me? \'a0What is your latest thinking on that? Because we've heard secondhand through statements of policy that your advisors would threaten a veto. \'a0What\'92s your take, sir? \'a0Would you veto the appropriations bills?
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs20 \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 President Obama:
\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0Our men and women are going to get paid. \'a0And if you\'92ll note that I've now been President for six and a half years and we've had some wrangling with Congress in the past -- our servicemembers haven't missed a paycheck.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 But what is also important in terms of our budget is making sure that we are not short-changing all the elements of American power that allow us to secure the nation and to project our power around the world. \'a0So what we're not going to do is to accept a budget that short-changes our long-term requirements for new technologies, for readiness. \'a0We're not going to eat our seed corn by devoting too much money on things we don't need now and robbing ourselves of the capacity to make sure that we're prepared for future threats.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 I've worked very closely with the Chairman and the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to develop a budget that is realistic and that looks out into the future and says this is how we're going to handle any possible contingency. \'a0And we can't do that if we've got a budget that short-changes vital operations and continues to fund things that are not necessary.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 We also have to remind ourselves that the reason we have the best military in the world is, first and foremost, because we've got the best troops in history. \'a0But it's also because we've got a strong economy, and we've got a well-educated population. \'a0And we've got an incredible research operation and universities that allow us to create new products that then can be translated into our military superiority around the world. \'a0We short-change those, we're going to be less secure.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 So the way we have to look at this budget is to recognize that, A, we can't think short term, we've got to think long term; and B, part of our national security is making sure that we continue to have a strong economy and that we continue to make the investments that we need in things like education and research that are going to be vital for us to be successful long term.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs20 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Question:
\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0As an Army reservist, I'm curious to know if you have any plans to send any more American troops overseas right now, any additional forces.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\b\fs20 \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 President Obama:
\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0There are no current plans to do so. \'a0That's not something that we currently discussed. \'a0I've always said that I'm going to do what\'92s necessary to protect the homeland.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 One of the principles that we all agree on, though, and I pressed folks pretty hard because in these conversations with my military advisors I want to make sure I'm getting blunt and unadultered [sic] uncensored advice. \'a0But in every one of the conversations that we've had, the strong consensus is that in order for us to succeed long-term in this fight against ISIL we have to develop local security forces that can sustain progress.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 It is not enough for us to simply send in American troops to temporarily set back organizations like ISIL, but to then, as soon as we leave, see that void filled once again with extremists. \'a0It is going to be vital for us to make sure that we are preparing the kinds of local ground forces and security forces with our partners that can not only succeed against ISIL, but then sustain in terms of security and in terms of governance.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Because if we try to do everything ourselves all across the Middle East, all across North Africa, we'll be playing Whack-a-Mole and there will be a whole lot of unintended consequences that ultimately make us less secure.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f0\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 All right? \'a0Thank you. \'a0I didn\'92t even plan to do this. \'a0You guys got two bonus questions.
\f1\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
}